
===== PAGE 1 =====
1
A Unified RCS Modeling of Typical Targets for
3GPP ISAC Channel Standardization and
Experimental Analysis
Yuxiang Zhang, Jianhua Zhang, Xidong Hu, Jiwei Zhang, Hongbo Xing, Huiwen Gong, Shilin Luo, Yifeng
Xiong, Li Yu, Zhiqing Yuan, Guangyi Liu, Tao Jiang
Abstract—Accurate radar cross section (RCS) modeling is
crucial for characterizing target scattering and improving the
precision of Integrated Sensing and Communication (ISAC)
channel modeling. Existing RCS models are typically designed
for specific target types, leading to increased complexity and
lack of generalization. This makes it difficult to standardize
RCS models for 3GPP ISAC channels, which need to account
for multiple typical target types simultaneously. Furthermore,
3GPP models must support both system-level and link-level
simulations, requiring the integration of large-scale and small-
scale scattering characteristics. To address these challenges,
this paper proposes a unified RCS modeling framework that
consolidates these two aspects. The model decomposes RCS into
three components: (1) a large-scale power factor representing
overall scattering strength, (2) a small-scale angular-dependent
component describing directional scattering, and (3) a random
component accounting for variations across target instances. We
validate the model through mono-static RCS measurements for
UAV, human, and vehicle targets across five frequency bands.
The results demonstrate that the proposed model can effectively
capture RCS variations for different target types. Finally, the
model is incorporated into an ISAC channel simulation platform
to assess the impact of target RCS characteristics on path loss,
delay spread, and angular spread, providing valuable insights for
future ISAC system design.
Index Terms—Radar cross section modeling, Integrated sens-
ing and communication, 3GPP standardization, mono-static mea-
surement.
I. INTRODUCTION
This research is supported by Young Scientists Fund of the National Natural
Science Foundation of China (62201087, 62101069), National Key R&D Pro-
gram of China (2023YFB2904803), National Natural Science Foundation of
China (62341128) and Beijing University ot Posts and Telecommunications-
China Mobile Research Institute Joint innovation Center.(Corresponding au-
thor: Jianhua Zhang.)
Yuxiang Zhang, Jianhua Zhang, Xidong Hu, Jiwei Zhang, Hongbo
Xing,
Huiwen
Gong,
Shilin
Luo
and
Li
Yu
are
with
the
State
Key
Laboratory
of
Networking
and
Switching
Technology,
Beijing
University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing 100876, China (e-
mail:
zhangyx@bupt.edu.cn;
jhzhang@bupt.edu.cn;
hxd@bupt.edu.cn;
rediaose@bupt.edu.cn;
hbxing@bupt.edu.cn;
birdsplan@bupt.edu.cn;
luoshilin@bupt.edu.cn; li.yu@bupt.edu.cn).
Yifeng Xiong is with the School of Information and Electronic Engineering,
Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing 100876, China
(e-mail: yifengxiong@bupt.edu.cn).
Zhiqiang Yuan is with the National Mobile Communications Research Lab-
oratory, School of Information Science and Engineering, Southeast University,
Nanjing 210096, China (email: zqyuan@seu.edu.cn).
Guangyi Liu and Tao Jiang are with the Future Research Labora-
tory, China Mobile Research Institute, Beijing 100053, China (e-mail: li-
uguangyi@chinamobile.com; jiangtao@chinamobile.com).
I
NTEGRATED Sensing and Communication (ISAC) is a
technology that integrates communication and sensing ca-
pabilities by sharing spectrum, hardware, and signal process-
ing resources [1], [2]. It enables high-precision localization,
target detection, and environmental sensing [3], [4]. Recog-
nized in IMT-2030 as one of the six key application scenarios
for 6G [5], ISAC is set to become a critical enabler of future
6G systems [6].
The successful deployment of the ISAC system relies on
an accurate and effective channel model [7], [8]. Unlike
traditional communication channels, the ISAC places emphasis
on the channel associated with the sensing targets (STs),
where the accurate modeling of STs is critical [9], [10].
The radar cross section (RCS) is defined as the effective
area of a target that captures and reflects the electromagnetic
wave energy [11], [12], thus characterizing the scattering
characteristics of the target. As a crucial component in target
modeling, RCS directly affects key tasks such as detection,
localization, and tracking. RCS is highly sensitive to factors
such as the target’s geometry, material properties, surface
roughness, orientation, frequency, and polarization, resulting in
significant differences between various types of targets. This is
particularly important for key ISAC targets, such as unmanned
aerial vehicles (UAVs), vehicles, and humans, etc, which are
defined as critical targets by the Third Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP) [13].
3GPP established a work item proposal on ISAC in 2021,
officially initiating research and standardization efforts [13].
This working group outlined several requirements for ISAC
channel modeling . First, the channel model must account
for both large-scale and small-scale effects [14]. Large-scale
models primarily focus on signal attenuation and shadowing
effects over long distances, while small-scale models describe
phenomena such as fast fading and multipath effects over
short distances [15], [16]. Therefore, in the ISAC channel
model, the RCS of the target must be modeled in both large-
scale and small-scale models. Thus, understanding the RCS
characteristics of different targets is essential for developing
accurate and scalable ISAC channel models.
To address the challenges of RCS modeling, extensive
theoretical and experimental research has been conducted.
Computational electromagnetics (CEM) methods, including fi-
nite difference time domain (FDTD) [17], the moment method
(MoM) [18], and the finite element method (FEM) [19], solve
Maxwell’s equations to emulate electromagnetic interactions
arXiv:2505.20673v1  [eess.SP]  27 May 2025

===== PAGE 2 =====
2
with targets, offering high accuracy in RCS calculations. How-
ever, these methods face significant computational challenges
for large targets having complicated shapes. High-frequency
methods such as physical optics (PO) [20], geometric optics
(GO) [21], and the physical theory of diffraction (PTD) [22]
provide approximate solutions with reduced computational
complexity but sacrifice accuracy and require corrections for
specific scenarios. Experimental measurements, on the other
hand, provide more realistic insights into the characteristics
of scattering. For example, RCS measurements in anechoic
chambers reveal that UAVs exhibit significant angular vari-
ations despite small overall RCS values [23]–[25], while
human targets show minimal angular dependence under mono-
static conditions, reflecting omnidirectional scattering [26]–
[28]. Vehicle measurements, on the contrary, reveal a strong
angular dependence, with peak RCS values concentrated on
flat surfaces such as the front, rear and sides [26], [29], [30].
These theoretical and experimental studies form the foundation
for understanding ISAC target scattering properties.
It can be seen that existing RCS modeling methods are typ-
ically designed for specific target types, and there is currently
no unified framework that accommodates multiple target types.
Modeling RCS characteristics for different targets separately
increases the complexity of target channel models and hinders
the standardization of ISAC channels. Specifically, building
separate models for different targets complicates the modeling
process and makes it difficult to handle the RCS characteristics
of multiple target types in a unified manner. Additionally,
for system-level or link-level ISAC performance evaluation,
RCS models must account for both large-scale and small-
scale scattering characteristics. However, due to the many
factors influencing RCS, accurately parameterizing both scales
is challenging. Finally, while electromagnetic simulations can
compute RCS, the computational cost becomes prohibitively
high in large-scale scenarios involving multiple target types,
making real-time simulations impractical.
To address these challenges, this study introduces a unified
RCS modeling framework that simplifies the representation
of scattering behaviors across different target types. By effec-
tively integrating both large-scale and small-scale scattering
characteristics, this framework reduces the complexity of mod-
eling and facilitates the standardization of ISAC channels. To
validate the proposed framework, comprehensive monostatic
RCS measurements were conducted in a large anechoic cham-
ber, focusing on typical ISAC targets. The main contributions
of this work are summarized as follows:
• A unified RCS modeling framework is proposed, which
can flexibly adapt to different target types, avoiding frag-
mented modeling and reducing simulation complexity.
The model consists of three independent components: (i)
the large-scale power factor, which quantifies the overall
scattering intensity, (ii) the small-scale angular-dependent
component, which describes directional scattering behav-
ior, (iii) the random component, accounting for variations
between target instances.
• A parameterization method for the scattering characteris-
tics of different targets, based on measurements at various
frequencies and angles, is proposed for the unified RCS
framework.
• Mono-static RCS measurements are conducted for three
typical targets (UAV, human, and vehicle) across five
central frequencies, with measurements taken over the
full azimuth angle range from −180◦to 180◦at a 5◦
step. The experimental results validate the accuracy of the
proposed model, which is then integrated into the ISAC
channel simulation platform to analyze the impact of
different target RCS characteristics on channel properties.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section
II discusses the modeling approach for the ISAC channel
and provides an overview of the current demand for RCS
modeling in standardization efforts. It reviews the theoretical
definition of RCS and existing RCS models, summarizes
relevant insights, and based on these, proposes a unified RCS
modeling framework aimed at meeting the requirements for
both large-scale and small-scale channel modeling. Section
III describes the measurement setup, experimental procedures,
data processing methods, and the unique scattering character-
istics of each target derived from the measurement results.
Section IV focuses on the parameterization methodology of
the proposed RCS model, evaluates its accuracy, and outlines
the simulation steps for incorporating RCS into ISAC channel
modeling. Additionally, the impact of different targets on
channel characteristics is explored through the ISAC chan-
nel simulation platform. Finally, Section V summarizes the
research findings of this paper.
II. ISAC CHANNEL MODEL AND RCS MODELING
FRAMEWORK
This section first introduces the modeling approach for the
overall ISAC channel, which has gained some consensus in
the current 3GPP standardization meetings, and leads into
the discussion of the current demand for RCS modeling in
the standardization process. On this basis, the theoretical
definition of RCS is introduced and a review of existing RCS
models is provided, including those for typical regular objects
and general RCS calculation methods for more complex and
irregular objects that require sophisticated electromagnetic
equations. Based on these insights, a unified RCS modeling
framework is proposed from the perspective of channel mod-
eling requirements, outlining the necessity of these factors and
their physical and mathematical explanations.
A. The RCS modeling requirements for the ISAC channel
model
With several 3GPP ISAC standardization meetings held,
there is general agreement to use 3GPP TR 38.901 as the
starting point to initiate the standardization work [31].
According to the 5G 3D GBSM model, assuming that
transmitter (Tx) and receiver (Rx) are equipped with arrays of
S and U antennas, respectively, the channel coefficient from
the s-th antenna of the Tx to the u-th antenna of the Rx is
expressed as
h5G
u,s(t, τ) =
N
X
n=1
M
X
m=1
h5G
u,s,n,m(t) · δ(τ −τn,m),
(1)

===== PAGE 3 =====
3
Fig. 1: Schematic diagram of 6G ISAC channel model based on GBSM [32].
where N and M represent the number of clusters and the
number of paths within each cluster, respectively. The channel
coefficient h5G
u,s,n,m(t, τ) stands for the m-th ray within the n-
th cluster from the s-th antenna of the transmitter to the u-th
antenna of the receiver.
Based on this, a consensus was reached at the meetings that
the sensing channel is divided into two parts: the target channel
and the background channel, as shown in Equation (2). The
target channel includes all propagation paths influenced by the
target, represented by yellow lines in Fig. 1. The background
channel comprises paths not affected by the target, such as
environmental clutter, shown in green lines in Fig. 1.
hsen
u,s(t, τ) =
K
X
k=1
htar
u,s,k(t, τ) + hback
u,s (t, τ),
(2)
For the target channel, we assume a total of K scattering
points. These scattering points may originate from a large
target that requires multi scattering points modeling, or from
multiple distinct targets. For the k-th scattering points, its
channel coefficient can be represented by
htar
u,s,k(t, τ) =
N1,M1
X
n1,m1
N2,M2
X
n2,m2
hST-Rx
u,k,n2,m2(t)hTx-ST
u,k,n1,m1(t)
·
q
σk(θout,n2,m2, ϕout,n2,m2, θin,n1,m1, ϕin,n1,m1)
· exp

j2π
λ
 rT
in,n1,m1 ·dsp,k + rT
out,n2,m2 ·dsp,k

· δ(τ −τn1,m1) ∗δ(τ −τn2,m2),
(3)
where,
• ni, mi, i ∈{1, 2} indicate the identifier of cluster and
path in Tx-ST and ST-Rx links.
• hTx-ST
u,k,n1,m1(t) and hST-Rx
u,k,n2,m2(t) represent the channel
coefficients of the Tx-ST and ST-Rx links, respectively,
and their definitions are similar to that of h5G
u,s,n,m(t).
• In the ST-Rx link, the Angle of Departure (AoD) of the
(n2, m2)-th path is characterized by the Azimuth Angle
of Departure (AAoD) ϕout,n2,m2 and the Elevation Angle
of Departure (EAoD) θout,n2,m2 in a three-dimensional
space. Similarly, in the Tx-ST link, the Angle of Ar-
rival (AoA) of the (n1, m1)-th path is described by the
Azimuth Angle of Arrival (AAoA) ϕin,n1,m1 and the
Elevation Angle of Arrival (EAoA) θin,n1,m1.
• rout,n2,m2, rin,n1,m1 represent the unit direction vectors
corresponding to the angles of departure and arrival of
the target, respectively. Correspondingly, dsp,k represents
the position vectors of the k-th scattering point of the
target.
• σk represents the RCS of the k-th scattering point of the
target, which is dependent on the target itself, as well as
the angles of arrival and departure.
It is evident that the ISAC channel model needs to con-
sider the RCS of targets at different angles. Currently, 3GPP
standardization efforts focus on five types of sensing targets
[33], as shown in Table I: automotives, hazardous objects,
humans, automated guided vehicles (AGVs), and UAVs. Each
type of target is associated with unique sensing scenarios.
The differences in these scenarios determine the geometric
layout of the sensing Tx and Rx. In typical scenarios such as
Urban Micro (UMi) and Urban Macro (UMa), since targets
are usually uniformly distributed in the horizontal plane and
the variation in pitch angle is small, the RCS of targets under
different azimuth angles is primarily considered. However, in
emerging scenarios such as UMi-AV and UMa-AV, where
airb orne receivers may be involved, the RCS of targets
at different pitch angles must also be taken into account.
Additionally, there are variations in the size and distribution
of different targets, which directly impact the RCS. Therefore,
developing a unified RCS model is crucial for evaluating
sensing performance under different target conditions.
B.
Conventional RCS Definitions and Existing Models
The concept of RCS has been established in the radar
domain for decades. The standard definition states that RCS is

===== PAGE 4 =====
4
TABLE I: Evaluation Parameters for Different Target Scenarios
Targets
Automotive
Hazardous Object
Human
AGV
UAV
Scenarios
Highway,
Urban grid
Highway, Urban grid,
High-speed train
Indoor office, Indoor
factory, Indoor room,
UMi, UMa, RMa
InF
UMi, UMa, RMa,
UMi-AV, UMa-AV, RMa-AV
Target
Distribution
Based on
TR37.885
Uniformly distributed in a horizontal plane within a defined range
Uniformly distributed between 1.5
and 300 m in vertical plane
or at specific fixed heights
Type/Size
Passenger car,
Truck/Bus
Child, Animal,
Adult pedestrian
Child, Adult pedestrian
Option 1: 0.5 ×
1.0 × 0.5 m, Option2:
1.5 × 3.0 × 1.5 m
Option 1: 1.6 ×
1.5 × 0.7 m, Option2:
0.3 × 0.4 × 0.2 m
the hypothetical area required to intercept the incident power
at a target such that if the intercepted total power is re-radiated
isotropically, it would produce the observed power density at
the receiver. Based on this definition, the mathematical expres-
sion for monostatic RCS can be readily derived. Suppose that
when propagating in free space, the incident power density SI
at the sensing target can be expressed as
SI = PTxGTx
4πd2 ,
(4)
where PTx is the transmitted power, GTx is the Tx antenna
gain, d is the distance between the sensing Tx and the sensing
target. Therefore, when the sensing Tx and sensing Rx are
configured at the same location, the received power PRx caused
by the isotropic backscatter from the sensing target can be
expressed as
PRx = PTAR
4πd2 Ae = SIσ
4πd2 Ae,
(5)
where PT AR provides the amount of power intercepted by the
sensing target given σ is the effective scattering area (mono-
static RCS) and Ae is the effective area of Rx antenna. From
Equation (5), it is straightforward to see that the scattered
power density SS at the Rx is
SS = SIσ
4πd2 .
(6)
From Equation (6), the monostatic RCS is determined by
the following ratio [34]
σ = lim
d→∞

4πd2 SS
SI

= lim
d→∞
 
4πd2 |ES|2
|EI|2
!
,
(7)
where ES and EI are the far field scattered and incident elec-
tric field intensities, respectively. It is important to emphasize
that the RCS defined by Equation (7) depends solely on the
sensing target itself and is independent of external factors
such as path loss, distance, or antenna patterns. Although RCS
tends to be larger for larger targets, it does not have a simple
linear relationship with the physical size of the target. Instead,
RCS can vary significantly depending on several factors,
including the target’s shape, orientation, material composition,
carrier frequency, polarization, and the relative positions of
the transmitter and receiver in relation to the geometry of the
target.
However, obtaining the RCS of an arbitrary target, as
described by Equation (7), requires knowledge of the scat-
tered electric field Es. For real-world objects with complex
geometries, such as humans, vehicles, and UAVs, determining
the scattered field intensity is challenging, making it difficult
to compute the RCS directly. To address this, large targets
are typically decomposed into smaller facets, each of which
is located in the far-field region of both the transmitter and
receiver. Under the assumption that there are no mutual inter-
actions between these facets, the total RCS can be determined
as the vector sum of the contributions of the individual facets
[35]
σ =

M
X
i=1
√σiej2k⃗r·⃗ciejϕi

2
,
(8)
here, M denotes the number of facets, σi represents the RCS
of the i-th facet,⃗r represents the unit scattering vector directed
from the target to the radar,⃗ci is the position vector for the
i-th scattering center, and ϕi is the phase relative to the first
facet. The facets can take various simple geometric shapes,
such as squares and triangles, depending on the decomposition
method used. If the RCS of each facet is known, the total
RCS of the target can be obtained by incoherently summing
the contributions from all facets.
For well-defined and geometrically simple targets, the RCS
can be theoretically determined by solving Maxwell’s equa-
tions under appropriate boundary conditions, which rigorously
describe the interaction between electromagnetic waves and
the target. Analytical solutions exist for simple geometries
such as spheres, cylinders, ellipsoids, flat rectangular plates,
and triangular plates.
The interaction between electromagnetic waves and a target
is primarily influenced by the size of the target relative to the
wavelength. This relationship determines the scattering behav-
ior and how RCS is affected by the target’s geometry, material
properties, and the frequency of the incident wave. RCS is
typically categorized into three regions-optical, Rayleigh, and
resonant-based on the dimensionless size parameter ka = 2πa
λ ,
where a represents the characteristic size of the target and λ
is the wavelength.
At GHz-level frequencies, most practical targets fall into
the optical region ka ≫1, where the target size is much
larger than the wavelength. In this region, scattering can be

===== PAGE 5 =====
5
𝒚
𝒙
𝒛
𝑬𝒊, 𝑯𝒊
𝑬𝒔, 𝑯𝒔
𝒃/𝟐
𝒃/𝟐
𝒂/𝟐
𝒂/2
𝝓𝑖
𝝓𝒔
𝜽𝒊
𝜽𝒔
Fig. 2: Diagram of a uniform plane wave incident on a
rectangular conductive plate.
approximated by using high-frequency methods such as GO,
PO, or Geometrical Theory of Diffraction (GTD).
The rectangular plate serves as the basis for high-frequency
scattering analysis. Its simple geometry allows for an analyti-
cal RCS solution using the PO approximation while capturing
key scattering behaviors. Consider a perfectly conducting
rectangular plate with dimensions 2a and 2b, where a and
b are the semilengths of the plate along the x- and y-axes,
as shown in Fig. 2. A plane wave is incident on the plate
at angle (θi, ϕi), and the scattered field is observed in the
direction (θs, ϕs).
According to the PO approximation, the scattering field of
the rectangular plate is given by
Es ∝Ei
e−jkr
r
ZZ
S
ejk(sin θi cos ϕi−sin θs cos ϕs)x
×ejk(sin θi sin ϕi−sin θs sin ϕs)y dS,
(9)
where k = 2π/λ is the wave number, and r is the dis-
tance to the observation point. In the backscattering direction
(θi = θs, ϕi = ϕs =
3π
2 ), the angular terms simplify.
Substituting this into the RCS definition, we obtain the closed-
form expression for the RCS
σplate = 4π
ab
λ
2
cos2 θi
sin (βb sin θi)
βb sin θi
2
.
(10)
Table II summarizes the RCS expressions for other regular
shapes in the optical region, including spheres, cylinders, el-
lipsoids, cones, and triangular reflectors. These simple shapes
are fundamental models for understanding scattering behavior.
The RCS of these targets is influenced by several factors, such
as the observation angle, operating frequency, target geometry,
and material properties. Small changes in any of these fac-
tors can lead to significant variations in RCS, complicating
accurate modeling. It’s also important to note that closed-
form RCS solutions for these targets are typically derived
under specific conditions, such as in the optical region or for
particular incident and scattering angles. Under more general
conditions, the RCS of simple targets may become a complex
function, making it challenging to accurately characterize their
scattering behavior with simplified models.
Existing models often struggle to systematically character-
ize RCS due to its inherent complexity. However, a closer anal-
ysis of these expressions reveals two distinct factors in RCS
behavior. First, we integrate the RCS over θ and normalize
by 2π, defining this value as the overall scattering capability.
Second, the RCS normalized by the overall scattering capabil-
ity is termed the angular dependency. The overall scattering
capability quantifies the total scattered power, which depends
on the target’s size and the wavelength, while the angular
dependency describes how the RCS varies with changes in the
observation or incident angle, influenced by phase differences
and interference effects. Consequently, we can simplify the
RCS description as a function of wavelength k and incident
angle θ, i.e., σ(f, θ). This insight is foundational for the unified
modeling framework proposed in this paper.
C. Proposed Unified RCS Modeling Framework
Currently, existing RCS models typically focus on specific
target types, making it difficult to provide a unified represen-
tation for a wide range of targets. Moreover, considering that
different target types exhibit different scattering patterns, mod-
eling each target type independently significantly increases the
complexity of channel modeling and ISAC system simula-
tion. For complex targets, detailed electromagnetic simulations
are often required, and the computational complexity grows
with the complexity of the target’s geometry and material
properties. These challenges motivate the need for a generic
and flexible model that can accommodate different target
types while balancing computational efficiency and modeling
accuracy.
We propose a unified RCS modeling framework, represented
as
σ(f, ϕ) = A(f) × B(f, ϕ),
(11)
where f denotes the center frequency, and ϕ represents the
azimuth angle. The RCS is decomposed into two independent
components to meet the requirements of the channel model.
The first component, A(f), represents the large-scale scatter-
ing power, quantifying the target’s average ability to intercept
and scatter electromagnetic waves. It is normalized in the
angular domain and is expressed as
A(f) = 1
2π
Z 2π
0
σ(f, ϕ)dϕ.
(12)
Thus, A(f) is independent of angular variations and serves
as a key input to the large-scale path loss model. It is
determined by the target’s physical properties, such as size and
material composition, and primarily captures the frequency
dependence of the RCS. The scattering capability at different
frequencies often exhibits significant variations, as described
by A(f).
The second component, B(f, ϕ), represents the angular
dependence, describing how the RCS varies with incident
and observation angles. This component captures the target’s
directional scattering characteristics, strongly influenced by
its shape and orientation. Different targets exhibit unique
angular patterns, crucial for modeling small-scale directional

===== PAGE 6 =====
6
TABLE II: RCS Expressions and Trend Decomposition for Common Canonical Shapes
Shape
RCS Expression
(Optical Region)
Overall Scattering
Capability (Factor 1)
Angular Dependency
(Factor 2)
Sphere
σ = πa2
πa2
1 (Isotropic)
Ellipsoid
σ = πa2b2
λ2
1

cos2 θ + a2
b2 sin2 θ
2
π2b3(a2 + b2)
aλ2
a3
πb3(1 + a2
b2 )
1

cos2 θ + a2
b2 sin2 θ
2
Cone
σ = πa2
λ2
sin2(θ −α)
(θ −α)2
πa2
λ2 ∗P
1
P
sin2(θ −α)
(θ −α)2
Triangle Reflector
σ = 4π
λ2
a4
(h + b)2 cos2 θ
4π2
λ2
a4
(h + b)2
1
π cos2 θ
Note: a, b: Semi-length and semi-width of the flat plate. L: Length of the cylinder. k: Wave number. θ: Angle of incidence or observation.
α: Cone angle. h, b: Dimensions of the triangle reflector. And P = (Si(4π −2α) + Si(2α) + sin2(α) ∗(1/(2π −α) −1/α)), Si(x)
denotes the sine integral.
effects in ISAC systems. For instance, flat surfaces produce
strong specular reflections, while cylindrical or irregular tar-
gets exhibit more complex angular behaviors. The inclusion of
B(f, ϕ) enables the framework to accurately model scattering
directionality for various target types.
In practical scenarios, even variations within the same
target type, such as large and small vehicles or people in
different clothing, can lead to significant fluctuations in RCS.
This variability arises from numerous factors, such as surface
roughness, environmental conditions, and multipath effects,
making RCS a sensitive parameter. To address this, we intro-
duce a third component, B2, to account for these fluctuations
σ(f, ϕ) = A(f) × B1(f, ϕ) × B2.
(13)
Component B2 captures random variations and is typi-
cally modeled using statistical distributions like log-normal,
Weibull, or Gamma. This is particularly important for dynamic
and irregular targets in real-world environments. The inclusion
of B2 ensures that the model accounts for the inherent ran-
domness in scattering behavior, enhancing its accuracy and
flexibility.
III. RCS MEASUREMENTS AND OBSERVATIONS
A. Measurement Setup
The anechoic chamber effectively minimizes environmental
interference, providing an ideal setting for measuring the RCS
of various targets, including UAVs, humans, and vehicles, as
shown in Fig. 3. The UAV used is the DJI M350, with four
symmetrically deployed rotor arms and approximate dimen-
sions of 430 × 420 × 430 mm. The human model represents
an individual with a height of 180 cm and weight of 70 kg.
The vehicle is a Volkswagen T-Cross model, measuring 4.218
× 1.76 × 1.599 m, and the metallic sphere has a diameter of
0.5 meters.
The measurement system consists primarily of a vector
network analyzer (VNA), power amplifiers, two horn antennas
(to transmit and receive sensing signals), a PC controller
and other auxiliary components, as shown in Fig. 4. The
VNA serves as the core device, transmitting frequency-stepped
signals and receiving and storing frequency domain response
signals. The two horn antennas are positioned approximately
10 cm apart to simulate monostatic sensing. The sensing target
is placed in the center of an automated turntable, which rotates
360◦in increments of 5◦. This allows measurement of the
target’s echoes at various angles. It should be noted that this
study focuses on two-dimensional RCS measurements in the
horizontal plane, with the elevation angle fixed at 90◦.
As detailed in Table III, the measurement procedure consists
of two main parts. First, RCS measurements are conducted for
UAVs, humans, and vehicles across five carrier frequencies
(10 GHz, 15 GHz, 20 GHz, 28 GHz, and 36 GHz), aiming
to assess the scattering characteristics of different targets at
various angles under monostatic sensing. Second, a 0.5-meter-
diameter metal sphere is used as a calibration target to ensure
the accuracy of the RCS measurements and subsequent data
analysis. The sphere is placed on a foam support to minimize
measurement errors.
TABLE III: Measurement Configuration
Measurement Content
RCS Modeling
with Angle
Validation of
Data Processing
Target Type
UAV Human Vehicle
Metal Sphere
Frequency (GHz)
36 /28 /20 /15 /10
28
Number of
Frequency Samp les
801
Bandwidth (GHz)
3
Distance between
Tx/Rx and Target (m)
6
12
12
6
Target Rotation Angle
[0, 360◦], Step 5◦
[0, 360◦], Step 5◦
Tx Antenna Gain (dBi)
13 / 25
25
Rx Antenna Gain (dBi)
13 / 25
25
3dB Beamwidth
34◦/ 10◦
10◦
Polarization
Vertical
Sensing Mode
Monostatic
Monostatic

===== PAGE 7 =====
7
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Fig. 3: RCS measurement scenarios of three typical targets in an anechoic chamber. (a) UAV. (b) Human. (c) Vehicle. (d) Metal sphere.
Fig. 4: The diagram of VNA measurement platform.
B. Measurement procedure and data processing
During the measurement process, the VNA collects the
transmission coefficient |S21|, which characterizes the trans-
mission properties between the Tx and Rx. This coefficient
reflects the combined effects of the two-link propagation paths
(Tx-ST and ST-Rx) and the target’s scattering response. To
isolate the target’s scattering characteristics, the radar equation
is employed
σ = Pr(4π)3R2
1R2
2
PtGtGrλ2
,
(14)
where σ denotes the RCS , Pr is the received power, Pt is
the transmitted power, Gt and Gr are the gains of Tx and Rx
antennas, R1 and R2 are the distances from the target to Tx
and Rx, and λ is the wavelength.
To ensure accurate results, the data undergoes additional
processing. Fig. 5 illustrates the workflow. After system cal-
ibration to eliminate equipment-induced imperfections, the
|S21| data, collected in the frequency domain, are converted
to the time domain. The Power Delay Profile (PDP) identifies
multipath components based on signal delays, while window-
ing and denoising techniques are applied to mitigate interfer-
ence. The Time-Domain CIR is then used to calculate echo
power by summing the squared signal amplitudes. Finally, the
results are inserted into Equation (14) to compute the RCS.
A 0.5-meter-diameter metal sphere is used as a calibration
target. With its size much larger than the 28 GHz wavelength,
it operates in the geometric optical region. The theoretical RCS
is derived from Table II, and a comparison of the measured
and theoretical RCS values is shown in Fig. 6. The theoretical
Collect 
transmission 
coefficient 
𝐒𝟐𝟏
Calibrate 
measurement 
system
Time-domain 
conversion, 
obtain CIR
Windowing 
processing
Noise 
reduction
Echo power 
calculation
Radar 
equation to 
Calculate 
RCS
Fig. 5: Illustration of data post-processing.
Fig. 6: Measured vs. Theoretical RCS of the Metal Sphere
with a diameter of 0.5 m.
RCS is -7.07 dBsm, while the measured average is -8.96
dBsm, with a discrepancy of less than 2 dBsm, confirming the
high accuracy of the measurements. The slight difference is
attributed to surface roughness and non-ideal reflective prop-
erties of the sphere. These results validate the experimental
setup and provide a foundation for further analysis.
C. Experimental Observations: measurement results for dif-
ferent targets
Based on the RCS measurements conducted in the anechoic
chamber for three typical targets in the previous section, this
section presents the RCS results at 10 GHz and 28 GHz,
used as representative frequencies due to space constraints.

===== PAGE 8 =====
8
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
Fig. 7: RCS of three targets versus azimuth angle at 10 GHz and 28 GHz. (a), (b), and (c) are the measurement schematics for UAV, Vehicle,
and Human, respectively; (d), (e), and (f) are the corresponding measurement results at 10 GHz and 28 GHz, respectively.
Fig. 7 shows schematic diagrams (a), (b), and (c) to help
readers identify the corresponding scattering characteristics at
different angles. The measurement results for the three targets
are shown in Figs. 7(d), (e), and (f). The following section
analyzes the observed scattering characteristics for each target.
a) UAV
As shown in Fig. 7(d), the UAV exhibits higher RCS values
around 0◦, 90◦, 180◦, and 270◦, forming a four-leaf shape.
This is due to the UAV’s rectangular body shape, with most
electromagnetic waves being reflected back to the receiving
antenna from these directions, resulting in higher RCS at these
angles. At other angles, the RCS values are lower, showing
almost omnidirectional scattering with some fluctuations..
b) Vehicle
The RCS of the vehicle, shown in Fig. 7(e), follows a
similar pattern to the UAV, with larger RCS values around 0◦,
90◦, 180◦, and 270◦. However, there are notable differences
compared to the UAV. The peak widths and RCS values differ;
for the vehicle, each peak has a width of approximately 30◦,
which is slightly broader than that of the UAV. Furthermore,
the average RCS of the vehicle is higher than that of the
UAV. This is attributed to the vehicle’s significantly larger
size compared to the UAV under identical testing conditions,
providing a greater reflective surface area for electromagnetic
waves, resulting in stronger echoes received at the antenna.
c) Human
As shown in Fig. 7(f), the human body exhibits a scattering
pattern that can be approximated as isotropic, with minimal
angular dependence but some random fluctuations.
Based on these results, we observe that the scattering char-
acteristics of the UAV and vehicle show angular dependence,
whereas the human body has minimal angular dependence.
This difference is due to the geometric properties of the targets:
the human body is approximately cylindrical, maintaining a
consistent reflective area, while the UAV and vehicle are
similar to rectangular prisms, reflecting signals more strongly
when facing their sides.
A
comparison
of
the
average
RCS
values
across
the frequency bands reveals the following trend: vehi-
cle>human>UAV. This aligns with expectations, as the av-
erage RCS is largely influenced by the physical size of the
target. Additionally, as the frequency increases, the average
RCS of all targets rises significantly. This notable finding will
be discussed further in the next section.
IV. MODEL PARAMETERIZATION AND VALIDATION
This section presents the parameterization method for the
unified RCS model, validates the model, and integrates it
into the ISAC simulation platform to analyze RCS channel
characteristics for different targets.
A. Parameterization Methodology
In the proposed unified RCS model, the RCS of a sensing
target is decomposed into three main components. For any type
of target, the first component, A(f), represents the average
intensity of the electromagnetic energy intercepted by the
target and scattered back to the transmitter. This component
is angle-independent and is typically obtained by calculating
the linear average of the RCS values measured at all angles,
as defined below
A(f) =
PN
i=1 σi(f, ϕi)
N
,
(15)
where N represents the number of angles, and σi(f, ϕi)
denotes the RCS value at the i-th angle. Component A(f)
is frequency-dependent, exhibiting significant variations with

===== PAGE 9 =====
9
different carrier frequencies. Based on measured results, we
assume that B1 remains relatively stable with frequency, so
we parameterize it as B1(f, ϕ) = B1(ϕ).
The second component, B1(ϕ), can be understood as anal-
ogous to an antenna radiation pattern, representing the relative
gain of scattering at different incident and observation angles.
B1(ϕ) is strongly influenced by the shape of the target’s
reflective surface. From the RCS patterns of the three targets
analyzed in the previous section, B1(ϕ) is generated using two
approaches.
For targets with shapes that approximate spheres or cylin-
ders (e.g., the human body), the scattering pattern is predomi-
nantly isotropic, so an angle-dependent model is not necessary.
In these cases, B1(ϕ) is set to 1 across all directions. However,
for targets with significant angular dependence (e.g., UAVs
and vehicles, which have rectangular shapes), B1(ϕ) must be
modeled as a function of angle, expressed as B1(ϕ) = F(θ =
90◦, ϕ), where θ and ϕ are the elevation and azimuth angles,
respectively.
To highlight the specific significance of B1(ϕ), the RCS
value at each angle is normalized by dividing it by A(f),
i.e.,
σi
A(f), to represent the relative gain at different angles.
This normalization removes the influence of large-scale power
levels and isolates the angular characteristics of the target’s
scattering behavior. The normalized data is then used to fit
and derive B1(ϕ).
For UAV and vehicles, we observe significant RCS peaks
around 0◦, 90◦, 180◦, and 270◦, with each peak exhibiting
a shape that resembles a quadratic function. In other angular
regions, the RCS approximates an omnidirectional pattern. For
targets with strong angular dependence, we propose modeling
B1(ϕ) using a piecewise function, as defined in 3GPP antenna
radiation power pattern specifications [14]. This method allows
precise characterization of the four distinct beam peaks. The
function uses quadratic approximations in peak angular re-
gions and constant values in off-peak domains, as formalized
below
10 log10 B1 (θ = 90◦, ϕ) = −min





12
ϕ −ϕk
ϕ3dB,k
2
+ ck,
Ymax





,
(16)
where ϕk, ϕ3dB,k, ck denotes the angular center, the 3dB
beamwidth and the peak gain of the k-th beam peak, re-
spectively. Within the mainlobe region, the quadratic term
dominates with smaller values, forcing the minimum operator
to select the beam peak expression. As angular deviation
|ϕ−ϕk| increases, the quadratic term become larger than Ymax,
causing the minimum operator to select −Ymax as the value
of B1.
In addition to components A and B1, we introduce a
stochastic fluctuation factor, B2, which effectively models the
randomness and variability of RCS in real world environments.
After isolating the large-scale power component A and the
small-scale angular component B1 from the RCS data, the
remaining term,
σi
A×B1 , typically exhibits irregular behavior.
These residual data are used to fit the stochastic fluctuation
factor B2, which is modeled using statistical distributions.
Fig. 8: Measured and Fitted A for Different Targets (Human,
UAV, and Vehicle).
To accurately represent the stochastic component B2, this
study incorporates three commonly used distributions for mod-
eling the superposition of signal fields: log-normal, gamma,
and Weibull distributions. These distributions are widely ap-
plied in existing studies and are frequently used to simulate
the scattering characteristics of various targets.
B. Model validation
This section validates the proposed unified model and
provides parameter values for different targets.
We begin by extracting the component A(f) from the RCS
data of three targets. RCS measurements were taken at five
central frequencies with a 3 GHz bandwidth, divided into 1
GHz increments, resulting in data at 15 frequency points. As
A is frequency-dependent, we fit the data for A, as shown in
Fig. 8.
The RCS values of the three targets fluctuate with frequency,
showing a general upward trend. Based on this observation, we
model the frequency-dependent component A as a monotonic
linear function of frequency. The fitting equations for the three
targets are as follows





AUAV
= 0.31 · f −9.26,
Avehicle = 0.08 · f + 8.21,
Ahuman = 0.16 · f −4.68,
(17)
where f represents the frequency. After extracting A, the
remaining data are fitted using the proposed B1(ϕ) method.
The fitting results are shown in Fig. 9.
Figs. 9(a) and (b) demonstrate that the model accurately
captures the angular dependence of both the UAV and the
vehicle, particularly the distribution of the four prominent
peaks. The fitted curves show good accuracy in identifying
peak positions and widths, although some deviations are
observed in peak amplitudes. For the human target, Fig. 9(c)
shows the B1(ϕ) curve fluctuating irregularly around 0 dB, as
expected, without distinct peaks.

===== PAGE 10 =====
10
(a)
(b)
(c)
Fig. 9: Comparison of Measured and Modeled Results for B1(ϕ) : (a) UAV, (b) Vehicle, (c) Human.
(a)
(b)
(c)
Fig. 10: PDFs of three statistical distributions for three targets: (a) UAV, (b) Vehicle, (c) Human.
The Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) is used to evaluate
the model’s fitting accuracy. A smaller RMSE indicates higher
predictive accuracy. The formula is as follows
RMSE =
v
u
u
t 1
N
N
X
i=1
(yi −ˆyi)2,
(18)
where yi are the measured values, and ˆyi are the model’s
predicted values. The RMSE values for the UAV, vehicle, and
human are 2.414, 1.8309, and 2.2451, respectively. These re-
sults show better fitting performance for the vehicle, especially
at peak positions. For the human target, the lack of angular
dependency leads to irregular oscillations, and the random
fluctuation factor B2 alone effectively models its behavior.
After extracting the large-scale component A(f) and small-
scale component B1(ϕ) from the RCS data, the remaining
data typically exhibits irregular patterns, attributed to random
fluctuations in the target’s RCS. This component is modeled
using statistical distribution functions. Fig. 10 presents the
PDFs for three distributions along with empirical data, with
parameters estimated using Maximum Likelihood Estimation
(MLE).
To evaluate the performance of fitting of three distribution
functions, a Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence metric [36],
defined as
DKL(p∥q) =
N
X
i=1
p (xi) · (log p (xi) −log q (xi)) ,
(19)
where pi represents the probability of the actual RCS measure-
ment at the i-th azimuth angle, and qi is the fitted distribution
probability from the model. A smaller KL divergence indicates
a better model fit. Table IV presents the fitting results for
component B2 using measured data and different distribution
functions.
TABLE IV: KL Divergence for Component B2 with Different
Distribution Functions
Target
KL Divergence
Lognormal
Weibull
Gamma
UAV
0.0535
0.1014
0.0693
Vehicle
0.0674
0.1676
0.1021
Human
0.032
0.0134
0.0134
For all three targets, while the divergence values of the log-
normal distribution are similar to those of the other two dis-
tributions, we ultimately selected the log-normal distribution
for modeling the empirical data. This decision is based on
two factors: First, the log-normal distribution’s parameters (µ

===== PAGE 11 =====
11
TABLE V: The fitting parameter results for UAV, vehicle and human
Target
A [dBsm]
B1 [dBsm]
B2[dBsm]
ϕ ∈
ϕk
ϕ3dB,k
ck
UAV
A = −9.26 + 0.31 ∗f
[315◦, 360◦)
∪[0◦, 45◦]
0◦
20.84◦
0.68
N(−0.52, 2.312)
[45◦, 135◦]
90◦
10.47◦
−6.52
[135◦, 225◦]
180◦
15.41◦
−5.61
[225◦, 315◦]
270◦
14.51◦
−12.30
Ymax = 4.47
Vehicle
A = 8.21 + 0.08 ∗f
[315◦, 360◦)
∪[0◦, 45◦]
0◦
12.59◦
−9.61
N(−0.53, 2.642)
[45◦, 135◦]
90◦
30.42◦
−1.67
[135◦, 225◦]
180◦
15.79◦
−10.06
[225◦, 315◦]
270◦
28.03◦
1.56
Ymax = 7.46
Human
A = −4.68 + 0.16 ∗f
0
N(−0.77, 2.132)
and σ) have clear physical meanings, corresponding directly
to the mean and standard deviation of the normal distribution
in logarithmic space. Second, from an engineering perspective,
the log-normal distribution offers computational efficiency and
analytical properties, which enhance its practical applicability
in engineering tasks. Therefore, we opted to model component
B2 with the log-normal distribution.
At this stage, we have thoroughly analyzed the modeling
and fitting processes for the three components, A, B1, and B2,
within the overall RCS model framework. Table V presents
the RCS parameter fitting results for the three target objects
measured.
C. Implementation Framework and Simulation Results of the
Unified RCS Model in ISAC channel
The proposed unified RCS modeling framework seamlessly
integrates into the ISAC channel modeling workflow by build-
ing on the foundational 3GPP TR 38.901 channel model [37].
This integration introduces a novel enhancement, enabling
accurate simulation of the Tx-ST-Rx sensing link alongside
the traditional Tx-Rx communication link.
Fig. 11 illustrates the updated ISAC target channel modeling
process, which primarily involves the integration of RCS-
related steps. It is worth noting that only the modeling steps
for the sensing target channel are presented here, while the
communication channel modeling steps are omitted, as the
communication channel does not account for the target’s RCS.
In the figure, we emphasize the newly added steps related to
RCS configuration, detailed as follows:
• Target RCS Configuration: Based on the target type
and frequency band specified in the simulation configu-
ration, the corresponding RCS statistical parameters are
obtained by consulting a lookup table (e.g., Table V). The
specific values for A, B1, and B2 are then determined by
sampling from the corresponding distributions.
• Target Channel Path Loss Generation: During the
generation of large-scale parameters, the method for
generating the target channel path loss is modified. In
this context, the RCS model introduces the large-scale
Configure the 
propagation condition/ 
target position
Concatenated  PL 
generation for Tx-
TAR-Rx link
Configure the 
scenario/antenna
Calculate the 
path loss 
(set 𝑨)
Large-scale parameter
General Parameters
Add new step
Evolution method:
Configure the 
target RCS
(𝛔= 𝑨× 𝑩𝟏× 𝑩𝟐)
Generate delays
Small-scale parameters
Generate cluster 
powers
Generate arrival & 
departure angles
Calculate the LSP
(DS/AS/K/SF)
Apply RCS pattern
(set 𝑩𝟏, 𝑩𝟐)
Generate XPRs
Generate 
concatenated 
channel coefficient
Apply pathloss and 
shadowing
CIR for sensing channel
Fig. 11: The evolution of ISAC target channel simulation under
the unified RCS modeling framework.
scattering power factor (A), which determines the overall
power level of the scattered signal. A higher value of A
corresponds to stronger reflected signals, lower path loss,
and higher received power at the receiver. Since large-
scale parameters do not account for angular variations
or specific multipath effects, only the A component is
required at this stage, while the remaining components,
B1 and B2, are set to 1.
• Apply RCS Pattern: During the generation process
of small-scale parameters, the application of the RCS
pattern is incorporated. At this stage, the RCS model
uses B1 to capture the angular properties of the target
(e.g., geometry and orientation) and their impact on the
strength of the multipath components, based on the AOD
and AOA. The random fluctuation factor B2 accounts for
the variations caused by destructive interference, which
introduces stochastic changes to the channel. Therefore,

===== PAGE 12 =====
12
(a)
(b)
(c)
Fig. 12: Simulation results of different channel parameters for three targets at 10 GHz and 28 GHz: (a) path loss, (b) delay spread, (c)
angular spread.
the values of B1 and B2 are the main focus, while the A
component can simply be set to 1.
The unified RCS model bridges large-scale and small-
scale channel modeling by decomposing the RCS into three
independent and interpretable components: A, B1, and B2.
This modular structure enhances generality, computational ef-
ficiency, and scalability, enabling the representation of diverse
targets, from canonical shapes to complex dynamic objects,
within a unified mathematical framework. By separately mod-
eling large-scale scattering, angular dependency, and random
variability, the model provides a flexible and efficient tool for
ISAC system simulations across various scenarios.
To validate its effectiveness, the unified RCS model is
integrated into the BUPTCMCCCMG-IMT2023 channel sim-
ulation platform [38], which is specifically designed for ISAC
channel evaluation. The simulation follows the UMi environ-
ment defined in ITU-R M.2412 [39], with a baseline setup
consisting of a single base station and user terminal, both
equipped with a single antenna. To focus on the impact
of target RCS, each simulation considers a single target.
This section presents simulation results for large-scale path
loss, small-scale delay spread, and angular spread, as shown
in Fig. 12, analyzing the influence of different target RCS
characteristics on the sensing channel.
1) Path loss
As shown in Fig. 12(a), the RCS of different targets sig-
nificantly impacts the path loss characteristics of the sensing
channel. At the same frequency, the path loss is highest for the
UAV, followed by the human, while the vehicle exhibits the
lowest path loss. This is because a larger RCS leads to stronger
signal reflection, resulting in lower path loss and higher
received power. Therefore, targets with higher RCS values tend
to achieve better sensing performance under certain conditions.
Additionally, frequency has a notable effect on path loss.
High-frequency signals (28 GHz) exhibit much higher path
loss compared to low-frequency signals (10 GHz), especially
for targets with lower RCS, such as humans, where scattering
and absorption effects are more pronounced. As a result,
the path loss for humans experiences a greater degree of
attenuation when moving from 10 GHz to 28 GHz compared
to the UAV.
2) Delay spread and angular spread
As shown in Fig. 12 (b) and (c), the RCS characteristics of
different targets influence the distribution of delay spread and
angular spread. This is the result of the combined effect of
the RCS pattern and the power spectrum. First, comparing
the three targets, the vehicle target exhibits a pronounced
directional dependence in its B1 parameter, especially along
four distinct propagation directions where the power is sig-
nificantly enhanced. This leads to a more dispersed multipath
distribution, which in turn increases both delay spread and
angular spread. In contrast, the RCS of the human and
UAV targets shows weaker angular dependence, resulting in
a less pronounced effect on the channel’s delay spread and
angular spread compared to the vehicle target. Furthermore,
the frequency has minimal impact on delay spread and angular
spread, as no significant frequency dependence is observed in
the B1 measurements at 10 GHz and 28 GHz. The results of
delay spread and angular spread are primarily influenced by
the profile shape of the target’s RCS, while the A parameter
has a relatively minor effect.
V. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
This paper proposes a unified RCS modeling framework
for ISAC channel modeling, designed to accurately represent
the scattering characteristics of targets and meet the diverse
requirements of channel modeling. Specifically, the framework
decomposes the RCS into three independent components,
each representing the effects of scattering power, angular
dependence, and random fluctuations. Through experimental
measurements and data analysis, the model has been validated
to effectively capture the scattering characteristics of different
target types, demonstrating its versatility and applicability.
Furthermore, the RCS model has been integrated into the ISAC
channel simulation platform, optimizing the ISAC channel
modeling process. Simulation results for large-scale path loss,
small-scale delay spread, and angular spread are presented,
along with an analysis of how different target RCS charac-
teristics influence the sensing channel. These findings provide
valuable insights and strong theoretical support for the design
and optimization of ISAC systems.

===== PAGE 13 =====
13
In future work, we aim to expand our research on RCS mod-
eling by developing a more comprehensive 3D RCS model,
which will improve the accuracy of the modeling, particularly
in the context of complex, dynamic targets. This expansion
will allow for a more precise representation of RCS across
different target orientations and geometries. Additionally, we
will focus on exploring dual-station RCS models, which will
further enhance the modeling capabilities for multi-sensor
ISAC systems.
REFERENCES
[1] H. Tataria, M. Shafi, A. F. Molisch et al., “6G wireless systems: Vision,
requirements, challenges, insights, and opportunities,” Proc. IEEE, vol.
109, no. 7, pp. 1166–1199, Jul. 2021.
[2] G. Liu, R. Xi, Z. Han et al., “Cooperative sensing for 6G mobile cellular
networks: feasibility, performance and field trial,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas
Commun., Oct. 2024.
[3] F. Liu, Y. Cui, C. Masouros et al., “Integrated sensing and communi-
cations: Toward dual-functional wireless networks for 6G and beyond,”
IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 40, no. 6, pp. 1728–1767, Jun. 2022.
[4] Y. Xiong, F. Liu, Y. Cui et al., “On the fundamental tradeoff of integrated
sensing and communications under Gaussian channels,” IEEE Trans. Inf.
Theory, vol. 69, no. 9, pp. 5723–5751, Sep. 2023.
[5] I. R. Sector, “Recommendation ITU-R M. 2160-0 Framework and
overall objectives of the future development of IMT for 2030 and
beyond,” ITU, Tech. Rep, Tech. Rep., 2023.
[6] A. Liu, Z. Huang, M. Li et al., “A survey on fundamental limits of
integrated sensing and communication,” IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutorials,
vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 994–1034, Feb. 2022.
[7] J. Zhang, J. Wang, Y. Zhang et al., “Integrated sensing and commu-
nication channel: Measurements, characteristics, and modeling,” IEEE
Commun. Mag., vol. 62, no. 6, pp. 98–104, Jun. 2023.
[8] J. Zhang, Y. Zhang, Y. Yu et al., “3-D MIMO: How much does it meet
our expectations observed from channel measurements?” IEEE J. Sel.
Areas Commun., vol. 35, no. 8, pp. 1887–1903, Jun. 2017.
[9] J. Zhang, J. Lin, P. Tang et al., “Channel measurement, model-
ing, and simulation for 6G: A survey and tutorial,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.16616, 2023.
[10] F. Dong, F. Liu, S. Lu et al., “Communication-assisted sensing in 6G
networks,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., 2025.
[11] N. N. Youssef, “Radar cross section of complex targets,” Proc. IEEE,
vol. 77, no. 5, pp. 722–734, May 2002.
[12] W. Chen, Y. Zhang, Y. Liu et al., “An empirical study of ISAC channel
characteristics with human target impact at 105 GHz,” Electron. Lett.,
vol. 60, no. 17, p. e70017, Sep. 2024.
[13] 3GPP, “Study on Integrated Sensing and Communication (ISAC) in
5G and Beyond,” 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP), Technical
Report TR 38.886, Jun. 2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.3gpp.org/
[14] ——, “Study on channel model for frequencies from 0.5 to 100
ghz,” 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP), Technical Report TR
38.901, Mar. 2022. [Online]. Available: https://www.3gpp.org/
[15] Y. Liu, J. Zhang, Y. Zhang et al., “How to extend 3D GBSM to
integrated sensing and communication channel with sharing feature?”
IEEE Wireless Commun. Lett., Aug. 2024.
[16] ——, “A shared cluster-based stochastic channel model for integrated
sensing and communication systems,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol.,
vol. 73, no. 5, pp. 6032–6044, May 2023.
[17] G. Cakir, M. Cakir, and L. Sevgi, “An FDTD-based parallel virtual tool
for RCS calculations of complex targets,” IEEE Antennas Propag. Mag.,
vol. 56, no. 5, pp. 74–90, Dec. 2014.
[18] E. Lucente, A. Monorchio, and R. Mittra, “An iteration-free MoM
approach based on excitation independent characteristic basis functions
for solving large multiscale electromagnetic scattering problems,” IEEE
Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 56, no. 4, pp. 999–1007, Apr. 2008.
[19] E. A. Dunn, J.-K. Byun, E. D. Branch et al., “Numerical simulation of
BOR scattering and radiation using a higher order FEM,” IEEE Trans.
Antennas Propag., vol. 54, no. 3, pp. 945–952, Mar. 2006.
[20] F. Weinmann, “Ray tracing with PO/PTD for RCS modeling of large
complex objects,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 54, no. 6, pp.
1797–1806, Jun. 2006.
[21] T.-Q. Fan and L.-X. Guo, “OpenGL-based hybrid GO/PO computation
for RCS of electrically large complex objects,” IEEE Antennas Wirel.
Propag. Lett., vol. 13, pp. 666–669, Apr. 2014.
[22] P. Y. Ufimtsev, “Improved physical theory of diffraction: Removal of
the grazing singularity,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 54, no. 10,
pp. 2698–2702, Oct. 2006.
[23] W. Tang, Z.-W. Xu, H.-S. Zhao et al., “Scattering of UAV Swarm
via Artificial Plasma Cloud for Probable Over-the-Horizon Detection
at VHF Band,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., May 2024.
[24] Z. Yuan, L. Yu, Z. Wang et al., “Experimental Analysis and Modeling
of Mono-static UAV RCS for ISAC Channels,” IEEE Antennas Wirel.
Propag. Lett., Nov. 2024.
[25] M. Rosamilia, A. Balleri, A. De Maio et al., “Radar detection perfor-
mance prediction using measured UAVs RCS data,” IEEE Trans. Aerosp.
Electron. Syst., vol. 59, no. 4, pp. 3550–3565, Aug. 2022.
[26] T. Motomura, K. Uchiyama, and A. Kajiwara, “Measurement results of
vehicular RCS characteristics for 79GHz millimeter band,” in 2018 IEEE
Topical Conference on Wireless Sensors and Sensor Networks (WiSNet).
IEEE, Jan. 2018, pp. 103–106.
[27] S. Abadpour, M. Pauli, C. Schyr et al., “Angular resolved rcs and doppler
analysis of human body parts in motion,” IEEE Trans. Microwave
Theory Tech., vol. 71, no. 4, pp. 1761–1771, Apr. 2022.
[28] J. Li, D. Zhang, Z. Wu et al., “SBRF: A fine-grained radar signal
generator for human sensing,” IEEE Trans. Mob. Comput., vol. 23,
no. 12, pp. 13 114–13 130, Dec. 2024.
[29] Y.-X. Zhang, Y.-C. Jiao, M.-D. Zhu et al., “Wideband near-field RCS
measurement techniques with improved far-field RCS prediction accu-
racies,” IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas., vol. 72, pp. 1–4, Dec. 2022.
[30] T. Schipper, J. Fortuny-Guasch, D. Tarchi et al., “RCS measurement
results for automotive related objects at 23-27 GHz,” in Proceedings of
the 5th European Conference on Antennas and Propagation (EUCAP).
IEEE, Apr. 2011, pp. 683–686.
[31] 3GPP, “Chair notes, 3GPP TSG RAN WG1 #116, meeting report
TSGR1#116,” 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP), Meeting
Report TSGR1#116, Feb. 2024. [Online]. Available: https://www.3gpp.
org/ftp/tsg ran/WG1 RL1/TSGR1 116/Inbox/Chair notes
[32] Y. Zhang, J. Zhang, Y. Pei et al., “Latest progress for 3GPP ISAC chan-
nel modeling standardization,” Science China: Information Sciences,
vol. 67, no. 11, pp. 357–358, Oct. 2024.
[33] AT&T,
“R1-2410337:
FL
summary
#1
on
ISAC
deployment
scenarios,”
3rd
Generation
Partnership
Project
(3GPP),
Orlando,
US, Working Group Document TSGR1#119, Nov. 2024. [Online].
Available:
https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/tsg ran/WG1 RL1/TSGR1 119/
Docs/R1-2410337.zip
[34] S. A. Hovanessian, “Radar system design and analysis,” Dedham, 1984.
[35] W. B. Gordon, “Near field calculations with far field formulas,” in
IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society International Symposium. 1996
Digest, vol. 2.
IEEE, Jul. 1996, pp. 950–953.
[36] J. Jiao, T. A. Courtade, A. No et al., “Information measures: the curious
case of the binary alphabet,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 60, no. 12,
pp. 7616–7626, Dec. 2014.
[37] 3GPP, “ISAC channel measurements and modeling,” 3rd Generation
Partnership Project (3GPP), Working Group Document R1-2406107,
Aug. 2024, 3GPP TSG RAN WG1 Meeting #118, Orlando, US, August
19th–23rd, 2024. [Online]. Available: https://www.3gpp.org/ftp/TSG
RAN/WG1 RL1/TSGR1 118/Docs/R1-2406107.zip
[38] BUPT-CMCC, “BUPTCMCCCMG-IMT2030 channel model platform,”
Online Platform, Feb. 2023. [Online]. Available: https://scc.bupt.edu.
cn/dataset-public/datasets/22
[39] ITU-R, “Guidelines for evaluation of radio interface technologies
for
IMT-2020,”
International
Telecommunication
Union
-
Radiocommunication Sector (ITU-R), Recommendation M.2412, Oct.
2017. [Online]. Available: https://www.itu.int/
