
===== PAGE 1 =====
Feature-Level Robustness of Physics-Guided
Micro-Doppler Descriptors for classification of Drones
and Birds
Shaiq e Mustafa, Salman Liaquat∗, Imran Hafeez Abbasi, Azhar Hasan
Abstract
While micro-Doppler signatures are a proven modality for discriminating be-
tween drones and birds, their reliability remains questionable in low-SNR, data-
constrained environments where deep learning models fail. This paper presents
a systematic analysis of ten statistical and physics-motivated handcrafted fea-
tures for micro-Doppler classification under controlled signal degradation, using
a publicly available 77 GHz frequency modulated continuous wave (FMCW)
radar dataset. Micro-Doppler spectrograms are corrupted using Additive White
Gaussian Noise (AWGN), phase noise, and their combined effects across a range
of −10 dB to 10 dB signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) and 1°- 10° phase noise levels.
Features extracted from the raw and corrupted spectrograms are evaluated via
performance metrics within a stratified 5-fold cross-validation framework for a
Support Vector Machine (SVM) and Random Forest classifier, with fixed hyper-
parameters across all noise levels chosen through grid search. Feature relevance
under noise is understood through the lens of permutation based importance
calculated as the decrease in macro-averaged F1 score induced by random shuf-
fling of a single feature while keeping all other features fixed. For noise-free
data mean classification accuracies of 0.916 ± 0.095 for the SVM and 0.916 ±
0.060 for the Random Forest classifier were achieved with F1 scores of 0.909
and 0.892. Experimental results reveal that entropy-based and side-lobe fea-
∗Corresponding author
Email address: salman.liaquat@aerospace.pk (Salman Liaquat)
arXiv:2604.12567v1  [eess.SP]  14 Apr 2026

===== PAGE 2 =====
tures maintain stable discriminative performance under severe noise, reporting
macro-averaged F1 scores of 0.773 and 0.831 for the SVM and Random Forest,
respectively. Feature-wise evaluation and permutation-based importance anal-
ysis reveals that certain features retain complementary discriminative power
even when their standalone importance appears low. These findings highlight
the importance of principled feature design and provide insight into feature vul-
nerability and resilience, providing a benchmark for robust, interpretable feature
selection in next-generation radar classification systems.
Keywords:
Micro Doppler, Drone detection, Low-SNR environments,
Permutation Importance, Handcrafted features
1. Introduction
In recent years, the use of drones, otherwise known as unmanned aerial ve-
hicles (UAVs), has increased significantly due to their low operational cost and
surveillance efficiency. Drones have seen a significant increase in their range of
applications, such as environmental monitoring, search and rescue missions, and
disaster management, among many others. Along with the benefits, concerns
regarding public privacy and safety have increased the importance of real-time
drone detection and their distinction from birds [1, 2], and it is an important
research area gaining traction [3, 4]. Traditional means of detection face difficul-
ties due to target’s small radar cross section (RCS), low altitude flight profiles,
and erratic motion paths, all of which complicate tracking flight paths [5]. De-
tection methods based on radio frequency and acoustic information have shown
promising results in detecting targets [6, 7]. However, both methodologies face
challenges such as radio frequency based methods are vulnerable to interference
and acoustic signals degrade in noisy backgrounds especially in urban areas.
As a result, radar based micro-Doppler analysis has recently gained traction
as an alternative method [8, 9, 10, 11, 12]. Micro-Doppler based methodolo-
gies usually involve transforming radar returns into Doppler-based representa-
tions to extract information regarding target classes [13]. These representations
2

===== PAGE 3 =====
capture dynamic, class-specific signatures that enable classification of drones,
birds, maritime targets, and humans [14, 4, 15]. In the context of drone clas-
sification, the presence of birds poses a significant challenge since their relative
size deceives detection methods [16]. Another major challenge in micro-Doppler
methods is the presence of noise that causes the target signal to be enveloped
and obscured, making it difficult to extract distinct features for classification.
To overcome these challenges, existing literature employs methodologies that
can be broadly classified into three categories; deep learning–based classifica-
tion methods, hand-made feature extraction techniques, and noise analysis and
degradation studies.
Deep learning representations have demonstrated success in different fields
such as biomedical imaging, facial recognition, human pose estimation and vi-
sual recognition [17, 18]. Motivated by this success, similar models have also
been trained on micro-Doppler spectrogram images, reporting classification ac-
curacies higher than 90% and in some cases, utilizing large curated datasets,
as high as 99% [14, 4]. These studies emphasize a reduction in computational
complexity and inference times for real-time deployment. However, investiga-
tions also show that micro-Doppler frequencies disappear in noisy backgrounds,
leading to unstable predictions under temporal and Doppler shifts and low SNR
[19].
Despite the strong performance metrics, these methods suffer from inter-
pretability with respect to the physical motion mechanisms. Because the meth-
ods use a data-driven approach to extract features, the models may learn spu-
rious or dataset-specific features rather than physically meaningful descriptors.
Experimental conditions are often constrained, and studies do not subject the
models to controlled noise conditions representative of realistic radar, limiting
insight into robustness and generalization. For example, Park et al. [4] assume
hovering flight conditions and maneuvering drone dynamics are not accounted
for. Additionally, these methods often utilize large labeled datasets, which are
scarce in radar scenarios. As an alternative method, handcrafted features can be
utilized by grounding feature design in governing physics that explicitly encode
3

===== PAGE 4 =====
semantically meaningful motion characteristics. Such features are expected to
generalize better for different conditions while improving interpretability under
signal degradation.
Handcrafted features derived from micro-Doppler spectrograms retain ex-
plicit physical interpretability. Theses spectrograms and their extracted features
inherently have distinguishable factors for different classes. For instance, drone-
based spectrograms manifest helicopter rotor modulation (HERM) lines repre-
senting modulation caused by rotating blades, while bird-based spectrograms
tend to show wing flaps at about 5-7 Hz [20]. Exploiting these differences, stud-
ies have extracted several features such as Peak Doppler frequency, Full Width
at Half Maximum (FWHM), micro-Doppler bandwidth, micro-Doppler period-
icity and other statistical or entropy-based features in order to classify targets
[15]. These studies use models such as Logistic Regression and different forms of
Support Vector Machines (SVM) trained on these extracted features, reporting
classification accuracies on the order of 85%. Despite their interpretability and
data efficiency, these studies lack in depth analysis of feature robustness under
controlled noise conditions. In particular, Higher-order statistical features are
expected to become less reliable under low SNR conditions motivating the need
for explicit robustness analysis in real-life radar scenarios. The key observation
here is that handcrafted features do not depend on large datasets thus they are
data-efficient, but existing literature lacks feature-wise noise robustness charac-
terization under varying noise conditions that are inherent to radar systems.
Radar systems are inherently susceptible to noise, which degrades micro-
Doppler spectrogram representations and directly impacts classification perfor-
mance. Studies reveal CNNs suffer significantly under noise such as temporal
shifts and adversarial examples showing that detection probability converges to
25% under low SNR conditions [19]. To mitigate this effect, studies incorpo-
rate denoising techniques or evaluate performance metrics as a function of SNR
levels. Denoising is often introduced as a preprocessing step, to improve the
robustness of the classifier in low SNR conditions [21]. While this does improve
the classification metrics, the primary focus remains signal quality rather than
4

===== PAGE 5 =====
an explicit characterization of how features respond to degradation. Similarly,
handcrafted features like continuous wavelet transform (CWT) and the smooth
pseudo Wigner–Ville distribution (SPWVD) when coupled with SVM classifier
demonstrate an accuracy of 88.63% even at -8 dB SNR [22]. However, these
methods remain model-centric and do not isolate the vulnerability or stability
of specific features under controlled noise injection.
While existing literature prioritizes maximizing classification accuracy, the
intrinsic reliability and variance under noise of the underlying features remain
largely under-explored. This investigation moves beyond model-centric evalu-
ation and explicitly characterizes feature vulnerability as a function of corrup-
tion to aid classification tasks. To the best of our knowledge, no systematic
permutation-based robustness analysis of physics-motivated micro-Doppler fea-
tures across multiple radar noise mechanisms has previously been reported for
micro Doppler classification. Therefore, to address this, the key contributions
of this study are:-
• Systematic characterization of feature degradation and vulnerability un-
der controlled noise conditions, including Additive White Gaussian Noise
(AWGN), Phase noise, and combined ranges. Noise levels have been se-
lected to represent moderate and physically plausible conditions, com-
monly in radar literature, AWGN ranging from −10 dB to 10 dB is taken
into account [21]. Phase noise is simulated ranging from 1-10◦. The effect
of both noise types in tandem is also considered.
• Establishing baseline performance metrics for handcrafted features and
quantifying shifts in feature importance using classifiers with fixed hyper-
parameters across varying noise types and intensity levels.
This systematic robustness analysis complements performance-centric inves-
tigations by providing quantitative insights into feature reliability under con-
trolled noise. The remaining sections are organized as follows: Section 2 de-
scribes the system model and proposed methodology, Section 3 presents and
discusses the results, and Section 4 concludes the paper.
5

===== PAGE 6 =====
2. Proposed Methodology
This section describes the methodology used to extract micro-Doppler fea-
tures from radar signals, simulate noise perturbations, and evaluate feature ro-
bustness via classification performance degradation and importance shifts. The
workflow consists of five main steps: (1) micro-Doppler spectrogram extraction,
(2) Simulated noise injection, (3) feature extraction, (4) classification using Sup-
port Vector Machine (SVM) and Random Forest classifiers and (5) Analysis of
feature robustness under different noise conditions using performance metrics
and importance shifts.
2.1. Dataset and Micro-Doppler Spectrogram Extraction
A publicly available Frequency-Modulated Continuous-Wave (FMCW) radar
dataset targeting aerial objects was used in this study [23]. Table 1 contains
detailed information on the radar used to collect radar returns. The dataset
contains radar returns from six different types for drones, six different species
of birds and a Trihedral reflector class that represents targets with little or no
micro-Doppler variations. We couple these sub classes into three super classes;
drones, birds and reflectors. The dataset contains a total of 130 radar measure-
ments. Each measurement is divided into shorter individual temporal windows,
referred to as segments. This imbalance introduces a potential confounding fac-
tor, as features derived from temporal marginals may implicitly encode obser-
vation duration rather than micro-Doppler structure. To handle this imbalance,
all calculated spectrograms were cropped at center using a fixed slow-time win-
dow of length L, ensuring temporal standardization between classes.
L was
selected as 32 with the variability of the data considered. Any values that fell
short of this window were truncated in order to standardize the temporal axis.
The spectrograms are treated as three-dimensional arrays containing range bins,
slow-time samples, and consecutive segments. For each segment, the range bin
with maximum accumulated energy across slow-time samples was selected to
represent the target of interest.
The energy for each range bin, depicted as
E[r], was calculated using,
6

===== PAGE 7 =====
Table 1: Radar data specifications
Parameter
Value
Type
SAAB SIRS 1600 (FMCW)
Center frequency
77 GHz
Bandwidth
160 MHz
Range resolution
1 m
Azimuth beamwidth
1◦
PRF
17 kHz
Scan rate
10 Hz (mechanical)
Field of view
±9◦
Output power
10 mW
E[r] =
N
X
n=1
|x[r, n]|2
(1)
where x[r, n] is the complex radar signal at range bin r and slow-time sample
n, and N is the total number of slow-time samples. This reduced the data to
a single slow-time signal per segment.
For each measurement, segment-level
Doppler spectra were computed and concatenated along the temporal axis to
form a measurement-level micro-Doppler spectrogram.
To convert these slow-time signals into meaningful Doppler spectrograms,
several steps were taken. The mean of the signal is subtracted to cater for the
DC offset that manifests at 0 Hz. The resulting signal is then multiplied with
a Hanning window function to reduce spectral leakage. Fourier transform is
applied to the resulting signal to obtain Doppler spectrum. The signal is then
shifted using the FFT shift operation to ensure zero-Doppler is at the center.
To calculate the spectrogram for each segment, the magnitude of the coefficients
of the Fourier transform are squared, converted into decibels, and normalized,
using
S(f, t) = 10 log10

|X[f, t]|2
maxf,t|X[f, t]|2

(2)
7

===== PAGE 8 =====
Table 2: Measurement duration for drones, birds and reflectors revealing significant variability
Statistic
Drone
Bird
Reflector
Mean
146.68
31.88
17.23
Standard Deviation
108.67
40.75
9.07
Median
123.80
13.94
11.70
25th percentile
56.35
7.90
9.30
50th percentile
123.80
13.94
11.70
75th percentile
242.35
40.47
29.47
where t represents time. Segment-level spectrograms were concatenated into
44 drone spectrograms, 56 birds spectrograms and 19 reflector spectrograms.
Figure 1 shows examples of the spectrograms resulting from the methodology.
Figure 1a shows the micro-Doppler effect caused by a bird flapping its wings,
while Figure 1c and Figure 1d show the side lobes in the spectrograms caused
by drone rotors. Figure 1b shows no side lobe data as expected from a reflector.
2.2. Simulated Noise Injection
To evaluate feature robustness, the signals were subjected to different types
of simulated noise, three types of scenarios were chosen; AWGN, Phase noise,
and the effect of both combined. Noise was applied to the raw signals and the
resulting signals were saved separately before the spectrograms were generated,
ensuring that noise effects propagate through the full time–frequency processing
chain. AWGN was used to simulate thermal noise and other random background
noise that the signal faces in real radar scenarios. The original signal, x[n], was
added to a signal, w[n], that was sampled from a normal Gaussian distribution,
which is normalized by the target SNR using,
xawgn[n] = x[n] + w[n],
w[n] ∼N(0, σ2),
σ2 = 10−SNR/10Psignal
(3)
where SNR is in dB. Psignal is calculated for each segment in the original mea-
surements.
8

===== PAGE 9 =====
(a) Bird
(b) Reflector
(c) Hovering drone
(d) Moving drone
Figure 1: Example Micro-Doppler Spectrograms calculated from raw radar returns
Raw samples were subjected to different noise levels, including -10 dB and
-7 dB to simulate extremely noisy conditions, followed by a range of -5 dB to 5
dB to represent moderate corruption. 7 and 10 dB were also included to provide
symmetry around SNR levels. Oscillator jitter is inherent to all radar systems
and it raises the noise floor against the signal power [24].
The signals were
subjected to phase noise with independent and identically distributed phase
perturbations of 1◦– 10◦(converted to radians). To apply phase noise, ejϕ was
multiplied to x[n] as shown in Eq 4,
xϕ noise[n] = x[n] · ejϕ[n],
ϕ[n] ∼N(0, σ2).
(4)
The signal was also subjected to a combined effect of both AWGN and phase
noise. This application was done in a tiered fashion; mild, moderate, and severe
levels, resulting in nine distinct levels. Table 3 shows a list of all noise types
and tiers included in the experiments.
9

===== PAGE 10 =====
Table 3: Summary of noise modes applied to radar signals
Noise Mode
AWGN (dB)
Phase (◦)
Severity
Raw
—
—
None
AWGN only
−10 to −7
—
Severe
−5 to 0
—
Moderate
5 to 10
—
Mild
Phase only
—
1–3
Mild
—
4–7
Moderate
—
8–10
Severe
Combined
−3
1
Mild
−2
2
Mild
−1
3
Moderate
0
4
Moderate
1
5
Moderate
7
1
Moderate
2
6
Severe
3
7
Severe
5
8
Severe
2.3. Feature Extraction
Features were extracted from the calculated spectrograms. These features
were selected based on their physical interpretations. Since the motion physics
of the spectrograms encode different characteristics, features capturing these
differences are extracted to classify.
Micro-Doppler effect caused by drones
has a higher frequency since the parts causing the effect move at a higher fre-
quency, whereas for birds this effect spreads over more time bins due to their
slower flaps.
Hovering drones tend to be centered around the zero Doppler
while birds need to move more to stay in flight, thus their spectrograms usu-
ally are more distributed. Valuable discriminative features that capture this
10

===== PAGE 11 =====
information were calculated using frequency and time marginals. Zero-padded
segments introduced for temporal standardization were automatically detected
via an energy-based threshold and excluded from marginal computation. This
ensures that duration normalization does not bias entropy or variance-based de-
scriptors The spectrograms were converted from its logarithmic representation
into its linear representation by using the following relationship,
P(fi, tj) = 10
S(fi,tj )
10
,
(5)
which gives the linear power representation of the spectrograms. Frequency and
time marginals were calculated by,
Pf(fi) =
T
X
j=1
P(fi, tj),
Pt(tj) =
F
X
i=1
P(fi, tj)
(6)
and the total power of the signal is calculated using,
Ptot =
F
X
i=1
Pf(fi).
(7)
The normalized distributions of the frequency and time marginals are given
by:
˜Pf(fi) = Pf(fi)
Ptot
,
˜Pt(tj) = Pt(tj)
Ptot
(8)
Using the full spectrogram and the marginals in Eq 6, temporal and spectral
features were calculated. The normalized marginals in Eq 8 are treated as dis-
crete probability mass functions for entropy and statistical moment calculations.
These represent the temporal and spectral dispersion of micro-Doppler energy
and variability in Doppler information across temporal and spectral axes. The
dispersion represents the difference in the periodic motion of rotors in drones
against the relatively irregular pattern of wing flaps for birds.
Third, Doppler distribution features such as Doppler centroid, Doppler spread,
and higher-order statistical descriptors were also extracted.
These represent
the dominant Doppler content and its variability. The statistical features cap-
ture the asymmetry and peakedness in the distributions of the marginals. The
squared magnitude spectrogram coefficients are treated as proportional to signal
11

===== PAGE 12 =====
energy within each time–frequency bin, and all energy-based features are com-
puted from this representation. The extracted features include Side lobe energy
ratio, Side lobe entropy, Spectral entropy, Temporal energy variance, Temporal
entropy, 80th percentile of Doppler bandwidth, Doppler spread, Zero Doppler
ratio, Skewness, and Kurtosis. These features are defined as follows:
Side lobe Features. The side lobe energy ratio is the energy of the total spec-
trogram except a selected percentage of the bins centered at zero Doppler. Let
C denote the set of Doppler bins within the central α = 15% bandwidth around
zero Doppler. The side lobe bins are implicitly the complement of C.
The Side lobe Energy Ratio (SLER) is then defined as
SLER = Ptot −Σi∈CPf(fi)
Ptot
(9)
While, the side lobe entropy is calculated using the entropy of the normalized
side lobe energy distribution.
Temporal Features. To capture temporal irregularities, temporal entropy was
calculated from normalized time marginals. Temporal energy variance is com-
puted on the unnormalized time marginal to preserve absolute energy fluctua-
tions. Let
µt = 1
T
T
X
j=1
Pt(tj)
(10)
then temporal energy variance is given by,
σ2
t = 1
T
T
X
j=1
(Pt(tj) −µt)2
(11)
Doppler Features. Specific Doppler based features were extracted to capture
Doppler based information from the spectrograms. The 80th percentile of the
cumulative Doppler distribution is calculated to measure the effective Doppler
extent and reduce sensitivity to outliers. The energy ratio of a small window
around zero Doppler is used to capture dominant stationary or near-stationary
components such as reflectors. Another feature is the Doppler spread, it is the
power-weighted standard deviation of the Doppler frequency distribution.
12

===== PAGE 13 =====
Higher-order statistical moments such as skewness and kurtosis are calcu-
lated for the frequency marginal. In total, a fixed set of ten hand-crafted fea-
tures was extracted per segment and used as input to the classification models
described in the following subsection.
2.4. Classification
To ensure that these features held sufficient information for class separabil-
ity, SVM and Random Forest classifiers were trained on the extracted features.
SVM and Random Forest were trained on different combinations of the feature
sets and the best feature set was chosen.
An SVM was also trained on the
individual features to analyze their standalone classification performance. For
sanity checks, 20% of the data was considered a hold out set, this data was
not used for training any of the SVM or Random Forest models. This holdout
set was later used to construct a confusion matrix. The matrix represents the
actual classes against the predicted labels which helps understand if the model
is correctly classifying the classes. The remaining 80% of the data is used for
training, using 5-fold stratified cross validation. Stratified cross validation was
done to reduce bias and keep overall data distribution, since reflector class is un-
der represented. Cross-validation splitting was performed at the measurement
level to prevent leakage between temporally adjacent segments. Prior to classi-
fication, the feature data was preprocessed by standardizing each vector using
a z-score normalization ensuring a zero centered mean and one unit variance.
To convert semantic labels, a label encoder was used to map the class labels to
integers indices for each class.
SVM and Random Forest were specifically chosen for their characteristics.
SVM was chosen for its ability of clear margin maximization with high-dimensional
spaces, while Random Forest was chosen for its non-linear boundaries and in-
terpretability of feature interactions. A grid search was used to choose the best
hyper-parameters for raw data. The search was optimized for macro-F1 scores
and these parameters were then kept constant for all noise modes ensuring equal
comparability. To ensure reproducibility, a random seed was chosen with a value
13

===== PAGE 14 =====
Figure 2: High level system diagram for proposed methodology
of 42 which was used by all classifiers. For the single feature classification SVM
used a linear kernel and C = 1.0. For multi-feature classification, the SVM used
a Radial Basis Function (RBF) kernel, C = 100 and γ = 0.1, allowing non linear
combinations to be learned. Finally, an Random Forest classifier was used to
calculate permutation importance to interpret how shifts in feature relevance.
Feature scaling was not applied to the Random Forest, as tree-based models are
invariant to monotonic feature transformations. The Random Forest classifier
used 300 estimators with a max depth of 5.
To analyze model performance, accuracy, precision, recall and F1 scores
were calculated as metrics for all setups. Performance metrics were computed
per fold and averaged across folds.
This protocol ensures that variations in
performance can only be attributed to noise effects rather than differences in
training or evaluation procedures. The permutation importance was collected
to understand which features hold more power for separability under specific
noise conditions. This approach was chosen over impurity-based importance to
avoid bias toward high variance features and to directly measure performance
degradation when feature information is disrupted.
All data processing and
analysis were performed using Python 3.11 with libraries including numpy and
14

===== PAGE 15 =====
pandas for data manipulation, scikit-learn for machine learning classifiers, cross-
validation, and permutation importance, and matplotlib for visualization. As
shown in Figure 2, the raw radar signals were first corrupted according to the
specified noise model prior to spectrogram generation. Features were then ex-
tracted, partitioned into 5-fold stratified cross validation folds from the resulting
spectrograms and then used as inputs to the classifiers. Analysis on noise per-
formance was performed by evaluating these metrics on corrupted signals. This
analysis was used to assess feature robustness and relevance rather than to op-
timize for higher classification accuracy. An ablation study was then conducted
with adding and removing features to the proposed feature set. Doppler based
features and higher-order statistical features were tested for all noise levels and
metrics were calculated and compared against the proposed set. All hyperpa-
rameters were fixed across experiments to isolate the effect of feature selection
from model tuning.
3. Results and Discussion
This section evaluates the performance and robustness of the physics-motivated
features extracted from the micro-Doppler spectrograms under different noise
conditions. Classification metrics are analyzed for classifiers over all noise con-
ditions to understand performance degradation.
From the initial ten hand-
crafted features a subset was selected comprising of Side lobe energy ratio, Side
lobe entropy, Spectral entropy, Temporal energy variance, and Temporal en-
tropy. Selection was guided by measurement-level cross-validated performance
and consistent robustness trends under controlled noise perturbations. Features
that exhibited limited discriminative contribution or high sensitivity to noise
were excluded from the proposed feature set to avoid redundancy. Importantly,
the selected feature set is systematically compared against the full feature set
and alternative combinations, and the behavior is further examined through
Random Forest permutation importance analysis.
15

===== PAGE 16 =====
Table 4: Baseline performance of Random Forest and multi-feature SVM on raw samples
Metric
SVM
Random Forest
Accuracy (µ ± σ)
0.916 ± 0.095
0.916 ± 0.060
F1 (µ)
0.909
0.912
Precision (µ)
0.950
0.947
Recall (µ)
0.901
0.892
3.1. Baseline Classification Performance
The baseline performance of the classifiers was evaluated using the proposed
methodology under noise-free conditions. Table 4 shows metrics for raw samples
using SVM and Random Forest utilizing the proposed feature set. SVM achieved
an accuracy of 0.916 ± 0.095, while Random Forest achieved an accuracy of 0.916
± 0.060 for raw samples. In addition, macro-averaged F1, Precision and Recall
are also reported, to show class variability.
Recall is particularly important
due to the low number of samples for the reflector class. For macro averaged
F1, SVM scored 0.909, while Random Forest scored 0.912 indicating balanced
class discrimination. Minor variations across metrics reflects differences in class-
specific separability, particularly for the underrepresented reflector class. Figure
3 shows confusion matrices on a holdout set that was held out of the training
set before cross-validation. This is done as a sanity check to ensure that the
model is able to retain classification ability for completely unseen data.
These results act as a reference point showing that the proposed features
have the ability to discriminate between the classes without noise injection.
This prompts an in depth robustness analysis for these features under controlled
simulated noise.
3.2. SVM for individual features
Analysis of individual features was conducted by using raw and noisy samples
resulting in accuracies demonstrated in Figure 4.
16

===== PAGE 17 =====
(a) Confusion matrix for Random Forest
(b) Confusion matrix for SVM
Figure 3: Confusion matrices with results of each classifier on the holdout set using raw data
Under AWGN, all features show incremental increase in separability as signal
quality improves.
Side lobe energy ratio and temporal entropy demonstrate
substantial discriminative ability across all noise levels. Accuracy for side lobe
entropy increases as the SNR improves to 0 dB, showing sensitivity to AWGN
noise but degrading gracefully under noise while avoiding collapse. This could
be attributed to the rise in the noise floor, since side lobe entropy takes the full
spectral distribution into account and it becomes more uniform due to noise
spreading energy across frequency bins, which increases entropy and reduces
discriminative contrast. Spectral entropy and temporal energy variance show a
similar trend of increase in accuracy as SNR improves but have a lower overall
accuracy. Side lobe Energy Ratio remains resistant to noise for most ranges
showing little fluctuations.
Under phase noise, Spectral entropy remains the most discriminative, consis-
tently offering approximately 82% accuracy even under extreme noise. Entropy
based features remain consistent across all levels, where side lobe entropy levels
climb up to 78% above 8◦noise. Temporal energy variation suffers under higher
levels of phase noise dropping to a low 58%. Phase noise perturbs phase co-
herence, which redistributes energy in the Doppler domain and alters side-lobe
structure. This redistribution may amplify differences in side lobe structure,
partially explaining the observed robustness of side lobe energy ratio. When
17

===== PAGE 18 =====
(a) AWGN
(b) Phase Noise
(c) Combined Noise
Figure 4: Feature-wise SVM classification metrics under different noise models as a function
of noise level.
subjected to a combination of both noise types, overall accuracy is slightly
lower as expected. Entropy based features such as temporal entropy, side lobe
entropy and side lobe entropy remain consistently distinguishable for the model
all being above 75% accuracy as signal quality improves. Side lobe energy ratio
still remain at lower than the rest but do not degrade drastically even under
severe noise showing some level of robustness. Temporal energy variance drops
significantly under severe AWGN showing that noise disrupts the global spread
of energy by raising the noise floor effecting the spread of noise overall in the
spectrogram that is captured by this feature. These results show that each of
the proposed feature set carries non-trivial classification ability even under dif-
ferent types of noise. This lays down the foundation for a deeper analysis of the
18

===== PAGE 19 =====
performance of these features in tandem.
3.3. Multi-feature SVM under noise
The results in Figure 5 show the classification accuracy and F1 score of
the multi-feature SVM. The SVM used selected feature set and was subjected
to AWGN, phase noise, and different combinations the ability of the classifier
under degraded signal quality. For clean data, the multi-feature SVM yielded an
accuracy of 0.916 ± 0.095 with an F1 score of 0.909. Figure 5a demonstrates that
under AWGN the features degrade gracefully even when subjected to extreme
noise below -5 dB with F1 score falling to 0.773 and accuracy reduced to 0.783
± 0.092 at -10 dB. For a wide range of noise levels, the model remains relatively
stable.
Improvements can be noted for values above 1 dB, however, further
enhancing SNR leads to stagnation in accuracy, indicating that discriminative
ability gets saturated once sufficient signal quality improves.
At 10 dB, the
accuracy and F1 improves to 0.891±0.038 and 0.881, respectively. The proposed
feature set retains discriminative power even when amplitude is subjected to
substantial corruption.
Moreover, Figure 5b shows that the selected features seem to be fairly resis-
tant to phase noise, showing a drop in accuracy to 0.908 ± 0.045 and F1 score
to 0.892 only when subjected to severe noise of 10◦. Phase noise seems to have
minimal effect on the accuracy of the feature set pointing to the fact that the
proposed features are relatively phase invariant up to these noise levels. When
subjected to a combination of both, the SVM still stays relatively stable in clas-
sification accuracy and F1 but follows the same trend as AWGN showing that
as the signal content recovers so do accuracy and F1 metrics. For further in
depth feature-wise behavior and the effect of noise on these features, a Random
forest classifier was trained and permutation importance was analyzed.
3.4. Random Forest classification and Permutation-Based Feature Importance
Analysis
To analyze the feature interactions and non-linearity, a Random Forest clas-
sifier is trained on the data with noisy and clean data. The robustness of the
19

===== PAGE 20 =====
(a) AWGN
(b) Phase Noise
(c) Combined Noise
Figure 5: Multi-feature SVM classification metrics under different noise models as a function
of noise level.
Random Forest classifier was evaluated by progressively increasing noise levels.
Figure 6 illustrates the classification accuracy of the Random forest as a function
of SNR, phase noise and combined noise at different levels of noise. Across all
noise conditions, classification performance degrades gradually as signal quality
weakens rather than collapsing abruptly, indicating a degree of robustness in
the handcrafted feature representation. When signal quality degrades severely
at -10 dB, the macro-averaged F1 score remains at 0.831 with an accuracy of
0.831±0.062, showing that the model remains decently stable even when signal
quality degrades significantly. Under phase noise the model retains an F1 score
of 0.884 with an accuracy of 0.882 ± 0.069. This is indicative of the feature
sets discriminative ability with Random Forest classifier as well. To interpret
20

===== PAGE 21 =====
(a) AWGN
(b) Phase Noise
(c) Combined Noise
Figure 6: Random Forest classification metrics under different noise models as a function of
noise level.
what features are given importance under different noise levels, Figure 7 shows
permutation importance of each feature across different noise levels.
When no noise is present, entropy based features, temporal entropy and
spectral entropy, dominate the classifier’s decision. This is due to their abil-
ity to capture global dispersion of energy, drone based spectrograms produce
concentrated Doppler structure while bird flapping generate irregular and dis-
tributed energy patterns. Entropy based features capture this contrast directly,
thus explaining their higher baseline permutation importance.
Under AWGN, a systematic shift is observed in the importance for these fea-
tures demonstrated in Figure 7a. Side lobe entropy, temporal entropy and spec-
tral entropy remain dominant in the classifiers decision under severe conditions
21

===== PAGE 22 =====
while side lobe entropy becomes less important when signal quality is improved
beyond -5 dB. This can be attributed to additive noise raising the overall noise
floor and spreading energy more uniformly across Doppler bins. Resulting in
entropy based features being relatively important because of their dependence
on distributional shape rather than absolute amplitude. Side lobe energy ratio
also increases in importance but only when signal quality is extremely degraded.
This reflects the dependence of the feature on complementary information when
signal quality degrades significantly. Temporal energy variance negatively im-
pacts the classifiers decision under noise often having a negative permutation
importance. Variance based descriptors suffer from noise due to the fluctuations
it introduces. Although, the standalone importance remains low, it is observed
that removing this feature reduced the overall performance. This points to the
fact that some features still retain complementary information.
When the signal is corrupted by phase noise, as shown in Figure 7b, the
feature importance shows the same trend as its raw counter part, where spectral
entropy dominates. This corroborates the earlier observation in Figure 4, that
the relative performance of features seems to be robust to phase changes. This
indicates that the feature set has a certain resilience to phase noise. Under the
combined effect of both noise types, the importance follows the same trend as
when it was subjected to AWGN. Entropy based features remain dominantly
more important, while temporal energy often has low or negative importance.
The results indicate that certain features maintain consistent importance across
noise levels, while others exhibit increased variability or reduced contribution
under low SNR conditions.
3.5. Ablation Study
An ablation study was conducted to evaluate the impact of the other features
that were left out of the proposed set.
The study shows that adding other
features to the selected five, negatively impacts the classification performance.
Table 5 summarizes the metrics obtained with the full set of ten features and
other feature subsets for Random Forest classifier.
22

===== PAGE 23 =====
(a) AWGN
(b) Phase Noise
(c) Combined Noise
Figure 7: Random Forest with Feature wise permutation importance as a function of noise
The proposed feature set in Table
5 records the highest metrics with a
mean accuracy of 0.916 with a standard deviation of 0.060 across folds with
23

===== PAGE 24 =====
high recall of 0.892.
This shows that the model can successfully distinguish
between the classes. Adding Doppler based features such as 80th percentile of
the Doppler bandwidth, Doppler spread and Zero Doppler Ratio perform worse
than proposed feature set. These features show 0.890 accuracy with 0.080 stan-
dard deviation across folds. The macro F1 score falls considerably to 0.889, this
can be attributed to the low recall. For these features the lack of separability
comes from the concentration around the zero Doppler for hovering drones and
reflectors. Statistical features were also considered in addition to the proposed
feature set, such as skewness and kurtosis. These features did not contribute
significantly and the metrics are comparable to Doppler-based features. This
comes from the redundancy between these features, for example, Doppler spread
can be mathematically understood as the second order moment since it mea-
sures the distribution of the Doppler bandwidth. Statistical features depend on
specific spectrum based features which makes them sensitive to noise and thus
they lack generalization. Their partial correlation comes from their dependence
on spectral energy distribution. This is also observed in the permutation im-
portance map shown in Figure 8 where statistical and Doppler-based features
show 0 or often negative importance. This suggests that the model actively
suppresses these features due to their noise sensitivity. In contrast, the earlier
selected feature set still retains some level of importance across varying noise
conditions. Side lobe energy ratio and Temporal Energy Variance represent in-
teresting cases: their importance remains low throughout varying noise levels,
yet removing these leads to reduced accuracy and F1 scores. This shows that
despite these features are not given significant importance by the model, they
provide complementary information aiding the model’s classification decision.
This points to the fact, that these features still hold discriminative power even
if permutation importance remains low.
3.6. Limitations and Future Work
• Single dataset evaluation: Future research can extend the research car-
ried out in this study to include multiple datasets with varying radar and
24

===== PAGE 25 =====
Table 5: Ablation study on feature subsets
Feature Set
Accuracy (µ ± σ)
F1 (µ)
Precision (µ)
Recall (µ)
Selected feature set
0.916 ± 0.060
0.912
0.947
0.892
Full feature set
0.907 ± 0.078
0.904
0.945
0.884
With Doppler features
0.890 ± 0.080
0.889
0.917
0.874
With statistical features
0.907 ± 0.056
0.905
0.939
0.886
Without sidelobe energy
ratio
0.890 ± 0.065
0.889
0.915
0.875
Without temporal energy
variance
0.898 ± 0.080
0.898
0.927
0.881
spectrogram parameters. Although the results demonstrate that hand-
crafted features hold strong discriminative power, the evaluation is limited
to a single dataset. Inter-dataset variability and operating conditions for
radars may significantly affect the feature distribution.
• Synthetically generated noise: Simulated noise does not capture the
full range of radar signal degradation. Practical radars are affected by
varying oscillator jitters, multi path propagation, line of sight obstruc-
tions and other hardware induced distortions. These conditions can al-
ter frequency and energy distributions which in turn affect the feature
distributions. Hence, the results need to be observed for realistic noise
conditions.
• Absence of multiple target per spectrogram:The study considers
isolated target detection.
In practical radar scenarios, the presence of
multiple targets introduces challenges, such as micro-Doppler superposi-
tion and other interference patterns that might alter feature distributions.
Extending the framework to multi-target and clutter-rich environments is
necessary to assess operational viability.
25

===== PAGE 26 =====
(a) AWGN
(b) Phase Noise
(c) Combined Noise
Figure 8: Random Forest with Full Feature set wise permutation importance as a function of
noise
• Handcrafted representation limits: Further research can be carried
out to extend the study to include hybrid or learned feature representa-
tions. Although handcrafted features capture physically meaningful fea-
tures, they may not capture higher-order information from the temporal
and frequency domains or cross-frequency dependencies. Exploring other
models with a trade-off between interpretation and learning capabilities
remains an open direction for future work.
26

===== PAGE 27 =====
4. Conclusion
This work investigates the robustness of physics-motivated handcrafted fea-
tures for micro-Doppler based classification of drones, birds, and reflectors under
controlled noise conditions. Using a compact feature set, mean classification ac-
curacies of 0.916 ± 0.095 for the SVM and 0.916 ± 0.060 for the Random Forest
classifier were achieved on noise-free data, with macro-averaged F1-scores of
0.909 and 0.912, respectively. Beyond baseline performance, the key contribu-
tion of this study lies in the robustness analysis of features under AWGN, phase
noise, and their combined effects. Rather than exhibiting a sharp drop under
extreme noise, the features extracted from the spectrograms degrade gracefully,
indicating that they capture structurally stable characteristics of the micro-
Doppler spectrogram. Permutation-based analysis revealed that entropy-based
descriptors remain relatively dominant across noise regimes and levels. Whereas
statistical features such as variance-based and higher-order descriptors exhibit
reduced and often unstable importance. This behavior reflects the capability of
the underlying physics of the task, entropy-based features capture global disper-
sion of energy across spectral and temporal marginals that remain relatively sta-
ble when the noise floor is raised, while moment-based descriptors depend more
strongly on precise amplitude structure.Results from the ablation study reveals
that carefully crafted features that encode physically meaningful phenomena can
outperform larger feature sets that include redundant or noise-sensitive descrip-
tors. These findings suggest that feature design, guided by robustness analysis
and interpretability tools offers a competitive and data-efficient alternative to
purely learned representations for radar based micro-Doppler classification, es-
pecially under resource-constrained or noisy scenarios. The study emphasizes
interpretability and robustness over raw performance maximization, address-
ing practical deployment considerations in radar systems. These findings are
relevant for real-time embedded radar systems where computational and data
constraints limit deep learning deployment.
27

===== PAGE 28 =====
References
[1] D. White, M. Jahangir, C. J. Baker, M. Antoniou, Urban bird-drone classi-
fication with synthetic micro-doppler spectrograms, IEEE Transactions on
Radar Systems (2023) 1–1doi:10.1109/TRS.2023.3326317.
[2] K. Nucum, S. Biswas, J. E. Ball, Micro-doppler models of drones, birds,
and bird-like drones, in: Radar Sensor Technology XXIX, Vol. 13471, SPIE,
2025, pp. 107–123.
[3] W. S. Soares, T. O. Costalonga, G. R. Colen, V. Fernandes, V. P. Magri,
Use of the micro-doppler effect in classifying and differentiating drones
from birds, Journal of Microwaves, Optoelectronics and Electromagnetic
Applications 24 (02) (2025) e2025289901.
[4] J. Park, J.-S. Park, Classification of small drones using low-uncertainty
micro-doppler signature images and ultra-lightweight convolutional neural
network, IEEE Transactions on Image Processing 33 (2024) 2979–2994.
[5] U. Seidaliyeva, L. Ilipbayeva, K. Taissariyeva, N. Smailov, E. T. Matson,
Advances and challenges in drone detection and classification techniques:
A state-of-the-art review, Sensors 24 (1) (2023) 125.
[6] R. Shahbazian, I. Trubitsyna, Human sensing by using radio frequency
signals: A survey on occupancy and activity detection, IEEE Access 11
(2023) 40878–40904.
[7] S. Li, G. Liu, P. Hu, P. Li, D. Xu, Z. Wang, Acoustic sensing for contactless
health monitoring: technologies, algorithms, and emerging applications,
IEEE Access (2025).
[8] A. Hanif, M. Muaz, A. Hasan, M. Adeel, Micro-doppler based target recog-
nition with radars: A review, IEEE Sensors Journal 22 (4) (2022) 2948–
2961.
28

===== PAGE 29 =====
[9] D. Utebayeva, L. Ilipbayeva, E. T. Matson, Practical study of recurrent
neural networks for efficient real-time drone sound detection: A review,
Drones 7 (1) (2023). doi:10.3390/drones7010026.
[10] S. Mandal, U. Satija, Time–frequency multiscale convolutional neural net-
work for rf-based drone detection and identification, IEEE Sensors Letters
7 (7) (2023) 1–4. doi:10.1109/LSENS.2023.3289145.
[11] S. Li, Y. Chai, M. Guo, Y. Liu, Research on detection method of uav based
on micro-doppler effect, in: 2020 39th Chinese Control Conference (CCC),
2020, pp. 3118–3122. doi:10.23919/CCC50068.2020.9189414.
[12] K. Tariq, H. Ahmad, S. Liaquat, F. A. Butt, I. H. Naqvi, N. M. Mahyuddin,
S. A. Alawsh, A. H. Muqaibel, A framework for improving search and
rescue operations through sdr-based fmcw radar and lpwan technology,
in: 2024 11th International Conference on Wireless Networks and Mobile
Communications (WINCOM), 2024, pp. 1–6. doi:10.1109/WINCOM62286.
2024.10655128.
[13] S. Liaquat, F. A. Butt, F. A. Nasir, I. H. Naqvi, N. M. Mahyuddin, A. H.
Muqaibel, S. A. Alawsh, Sdr-based metal classification using spectrogram
images from micro-doppler signatures, IEEE Instrumentation & Measure-
ment Magazine 28 (3) (2025) 22–29. doi:10.1109/MIM.2025.10982114.
[14] L. Zhang, G. Tu, Y. Xu, X. Zhou, A lightweight cnn-based method for
micro-doppler feature-based uav detection and classification, Electronics
14 (24) (2025) 4831.
[15] S. Rahman, A. B. Vattulainen, D. A. Robertson, Machine learning-based
approach for maritime target classification and anomaly detection using
millimetre wave radar doppler signatures, IET Radar, Sonar & Navigation
18 (2) (2024) 344–360.
[16] R. A. Zitar, M. Kassab, A. E. Fallah, F. Barbaresco, Bird/drone detection
and classification using classical and deep learning methods (Apr. 2023).
29

===== PAGE 30 =====
doi:10.22541/au.168075364.45332093/v1.
URL http://dx.doi.org/10.22541/au.168075364.45332093/v1
[17] F. J. Chen, S. X. Li, T. Y. Liang, F. C. Yin, F. H. Jiang, S. D. Chen,
Wipowersys: A framework using csi signal for skeleton-based human pose
estimation in distribution room, Arabian Journal for Science and Engineer-
ing (2026) 1–15.
[18] Ö. Özaltın, Early detection of alzheimer’s disease from mr images using
fine-tuning neighborhood component analysis and convolutional neural net-
works, Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering 50 (10) (2025) 7781–
7800.
[19] M. Czerkawski, C. Clemente, C. Michie, I. Andonovic, C. Tachtatzis, Ro-
bustness of deep neural networks for micro-doppler radar classification, in:
2022 23rd International Radar Symposium (IRS), IEEE, 2022, pp. 480–485.
[20] S. Rahman, D. A. Robertson, Radar micro-doppler signatures of drones
and birds at k-band and w-band, Scientific reports 8 (1) (2018) 17396.
[21] N. Nguyen, M. Pham, V.-S. Doan, V. Le, Improving human activity clas-
sification based on micro-doppler signatures of fmcw radar with the effect
of noise, PloS one 19 (8) (2024) e0308045.
[22] K. Yu, Y. Qi, L. Shen, X. Wang, D. Quan, D. Zhang, Radar signal
recognition based on bagging svm, Electronics 12 (24) (2023).
doi:
10.3390/electronics12244981.
URL https://www.mdpi.com/2079-9292/12/24/4981
[23] A. Karlsson, Radar measurements on drones, birds and humans with a
77ghz fmcw sensor. (Sep. 2021). doi:10.5281/zenodo.5845259.
URL https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5845259
[24] J. Kannanthara, D. Griffiths, M. Jahangir, J. M. Jones, C. J. Baker, M. An-
toniou, C. J. Bell, H. White, K. Bongs, Y. Singh, Whole system radar mod-
30

===== PAGE 31 =====
elling: Simulation and validation, IET Radar, Sonar & Navigation 17 (6)
(2023) 1050–1060.
31
